PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGE
ACT, No. 13 OF 2006
Printed on the Order of Government[Certified on 31st March, 2006]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT  OF GOVERNMENT  PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED  AT THE GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs. 16.75 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 31, 2006
1 Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006
Short title.
2—PL 001066–11,150 (03/2006)[Certified on 31st March, 2006]
L.D.–O. 11/2006.A
N ACT TO IMPOSE AN ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGE ON THE RELEVANT
TURNOVER OF ANY PERSON OR PARTNERSHIP  IN RESPECT OF EVERY
QUARTER OF EVERY YEAR OF ASSESSMENT  COMMENCING  ON OR AFTER
APRIL 1, 2006 ; TO AMEND PART I OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 11 OF
2004 ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR
INCIDENTAL  THERETO
BE  it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1.This Act may be cited as the Economic Service Charge
Act, No. 13 of 2006.
PART I
IMPOSITION OF AN ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGE
2.(1) An Economic Service Charge (hereinafter referred
to as “ the service charge”) shall, subject to the provisions of
this Act, be charged from every person and every partnership
for every quarter of every year of assessment commencing on
or after April, I, 2006 (hereinafter in this Act referred to as “a
relevant quarter”) in respect of every part of the relevant
turnover of such person or partnership for that relevant
quarter, at the appropriate rate specified in the Schedule to
this Act:
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
service charge shall not be charged from any person or
partnership for any relevant quarter, in circumstances wherein
the relevant turnover of such person or partnership for that
relevant quarter does not exceed rupees ten million:
Provided that the service charge chargeable from any
person or partnership for any relevant quarter shall in no case
exceed rupees fifteen million.Imposition of an
EconomicService Charge.
2Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006
(3) In this section—
(a) “relevant turnover” in relation to any person or
partnership and to any relevant quarter means  theaggregate turnover for that relevant quarter of   everytrade, business, profession or vocation carried on orexercised  by such person or partnership, as the casemay be, in Sri Lanka whether directly or through anagent or more than one agent :
Provided that the relevant turnover for any
relevant quarter shall not include the turnover forthat relevant quarter of any trade, business professionor vocation, the commercial operations of whichcommenced, whether by such person or partnershipor any other person or partnership, on a date whichfalls within the period of thirty six monthsimmediately preceding the first day of that relevantquarter.
For the purposes  of the  proviso the expression
“trade or business” in relation to any person orpartnership shall not include any trade or businesswhich deals in the wholesale or retail of any goodsnot manufactured or produced by such person orpartnership.
(b) “turnover” in relation to any trade, business,
profession or vocation and to any relevant quartermeans the total amount receivable, whether actuallyreceived or not, from every transaction entered  intoin that relevant quarter in the course of such trade,business, profession or vocation carried on orexercised by such person or partnership, -
(a) after deducting therefrom –
(i) any sum included in such total amount
being a sum which represents the valueadded tax in   respect of that transaction,provided that the person or partnership
3 Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006
who or which carries on or exercises
such trade, business, profession or
vocation is at the time of such
transaction registered under section 10of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of
2002;
(ii) any sum included in such total amount
being the proceeds from the disposal of
any capital asset;  and
(iii) the amount of any bad debt incurred by
that trade, business, profession orvocation during that relevant quarter,
being an amount which had been
included in the relevant turnover of suchtrade, business, profession or vocationof that or
 any previous relevant  quarter;
and
(b) after adding thereto, any sum received during
that relevant quarter on account of any bad
debt written off or allowed in any previousquarter :
Provided that –
(a) in the case of a bank, the receipts of such bank
by way of, or on account of , interest, discounts,dividend, exchange, service charges,
commissions, brokerage or any other income
derived by the bank in the course of itsbusiness shall be deemed to form part of the
turnover of such bank; and
(b) in the case of a person carrying on insurance
business, insurance premia received, orreceivable, in respect of –
4Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006
(i) life insurance; and
(ii)insurance against damages or
destruction by strike, riot, civilcommotion, or acts of terrorism and paidinto the Consolidated Fund,
shall be deemed not to form part of the turnover
of such person.
3.(1) The amount of any service charge paid by any
person for any relevant quarter shall be deducted from theincome tax if any, payable by that person for the year ofassessment of which that relevant quarter is a quarter(hereinafter referred to as the “first – mentioned year ofassessment).
(2) The amount of any service charge paid by any
partnership for any relevant quarter shall be apportionedamong the partners of such partnership in the ratio in whichsuch partners share the profits or losses of such partnershipfor the year of assessment of which that relevant quarter is aquarter. The amount of the service charge so apportioned toany partner, shall be deducted from the income tax, if anypayable by such partner for the year of assessment of whichthat relevant quarter is a quarter (hereinafter referred to as the“first – mentioned year of assessment”).
(3) The balance, if any, of such service charge paid by any
person, after its deduction in accordance with subsection (1)shall be deducted from the income tax payable by such personfor the year of assessment immediately succeeding the firstmentioned year of assessment (hereinafter referred to as the“first succeeding  year of assessment”).
(4) The balance, if any, of any service charge apportioned
to any partner in accordance with subsection (2), after itsdeduction in accordance with subsection (2),  shall bededucted from the income tax payable by such partner forService charge tobe deductedfrom relevantincome tax.
5 Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006
the year of assessment immediately succeeding the first-
mentioned year of assessment (hereinafter referred to as the“first succeeding year of assessment).
(5) The residue, if any, of the balance referred to in
subsection (3) or subsection (4), as the case may be, after itsdeduction in accordance with subsection (3) or subsection(4) as the case may be, shall be deducted from the income taxpayable by such person or such partner of such partnership,as the case may be, for the year of assessment immediatelysucceeding the first succeeding year of assessment (hereinafterreferred to as the “second succeeding year of assessment”).
(6) In no circumstances shall –
(a) the aggregate deduction of the amount of the service
charge paid by any person or paid by any partnershipand apportioned to any partner, as the case may be,from the income tax payable by such person or suchpartner of such partnership, as the case may be,exceed the amount of such service charge,
(b) the remaining portion, if any of the residue referred
to in subsection(5) after its deduction in accordancewith subsection (5), be deducted from any incometax payable for any year of assessment succeedingthe second succeeding year of assessment.
4.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law,
the remaining portion of the service charge referred to in sub-paragraph ( b) of subsection (6) of section 3, shall not be
refunded.
5.Every person and every partnership chargeable or
likely to be chargeable with the service charge for anyrelevant quarter shall, by communication in writingaddressed to the Commissioner General, give notice of suchchargeability or likely chargeability, before the fifteenth dayof the last month of that relevant quarter. Such communication
Remainingportion of theservice chargenot to berefunded
Notice of
chargeability
6Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006
shall disclose the income tax file number or the personal
identification number as the case may be, assigned by theCommissioner-General, to such person or partnership.
6.The service charge which any person or partnership is
chargeable with for any relevant quarter shall,notwithstanding that no assessment has been made on suchperson or partnership by an Assessor, be paid to theCommissioner-General on or before the twentieth day of themonth immediately succeeding the end of that relevantquarter.
7.Every person and partnership chargeable with the
service charge for any relevant quarter shall, whether or notrequired by an Assessor in that behalf, furnish to an Assessor,on or before the twentieth day of the month immediatelysucceeding the end of that relevant quarter, a return in suchform and containing such particulars as may be specified bythe Commissioner General, of his or its, as the case may berelevant turnover.  The return shall also show the basis of thecalculation of the service charge and other details, if anyspecified by the Commissioner General under this section.
8.Every person and partnership chargeable with the
service charge shall maintain a record of the transactions ofevery trade, business, profession or vocation carried on orexercised by such person or partnership, in such manner aswould facilitate the reconciliation of the return of relevantturnover furnished by such person or partnership undersection 7 of this Act, with such record.
9. Where in the opinion of an Assessor, any person or
partnership who or which being chargeable with the servicecharge for any relevant quarter -
(a) has not paid the service charge: or
(b) has paid an amount less than the proper amount
which such person or such partnership ought to havepaid as service charge for such relevant quarter,Date on whichservice charge isto be paid.
Furnishing of
returns.
Maintenance of
records.
Assessor to make
assessment incertain cases.
7 Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006
such Assessor may, assess the amount of the service charge
which, in his opinion, ought to have been paid by such person
or partnership as the service charge for that relevant quarterand shall by notice in writing require such  person orpartnership to forthwith pay –
(i) the amount of the service charge so assessed for that
relevant quarter, if that person or that partnership
has not paid any service charge for that relevantquarter; or
(ii) the difference between the amount of the service
charge so assessed and the amount of the service
charge actually paid by such person or partnership
for that relevant quarter, if such person has paidany amount as service charge for that relevantquarter.
10.(1) Where any service charge or any part of such
service charge for any relevant quarter is not paid on or beforethe date specified in section 6 for the payment of such servicecharge, such instatement or part thereof shall be deemed tobe in default.
(2) Where the service charge or part thereof which is in
default is payable, -
(a) by an individual;
(b) by a partnership;
(c) by a company or body of persons,.
then such individual, every partner of such partnership or
every director or other principal officer of such company or
body of persons as the case may be, shall be deemed to be a
defaulter for the purposes of this Act.Service charge
not paid deemedto be in default
8Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006
11.The provisions of Chapter XXIII, XXIV, XXV, XXVI,
XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX and XXXI of the Inland Revenue
Act, relating respectively to  Appeals,  Finality of Assessmentsand Penalty for Incorrect Returns, Tax in Default and SumsAdded thereto, Recovery of Tax, Miscellaneous Matters,Repayment, Penalties and Offences, Administration andGeneral matters shall mutatis mutandis , apply respectively
to  Appeals, Finality of Assessments and Penalty for Incorrect
Returns, Service Charge in Default and Sums Added Thereto,Recovery of Service Charge, Miscellaneous Matters,Repayment, Penalties and Offences, Administration andGeneral matters under this Act.
12.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed orin respect of which regulations are required or authorized tobe made under this Act.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of
the powers conferred by subjection (1), the Minister maymake regulations-
(a) specifying the guidelines relating to the
ascertainment of “turnover” for the purposes of
section 2 in relation to any case to which the proviso
to the definition of the expression “turnover” inthat section does not apply; and
(b) specifying the instances as to whether or not the
non-chargeability referred to in subsection (2) of
section 2, in the circumstances referred to in that
subsection shall apply.
(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of publication, or on such later date as may be
specified therein.Certain
provisions of theInland RevenueAct to apply
Regulations
9 Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006
(4) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall, as
soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be
placed before Parliament for approval.  Every regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of disapproval, but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
13.In this Act unless the context otherwise requires –
“agent”, “allowance for depreciation” and “Assessor” shall
have the respective meanings assigned to them in
the Inland Revenue Act;
“BOI enterprise” in relation to any relevant quarter means
any enterprise in relation to which the exemption of
its profits and income from income tax, in terms of
any agreement entered into by the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka with such enterprise undersection 17 of the Board of Investment of Sri LankaLaw, No. 4 of 1978, subsists during the whole or anypart of that  relevant quarter ;
“body of persons”, “business”, “capital asset”,
Commissioner General”, and “company” shall havethe respective meanings assigned to them in theInland Revenue Act ;
“distributor” in relation to any manufacturer or producer
of any goods in Sri Lanka means any person orpartnership appointed by such manufacturer orproducer for the sale in the wholesale market, of
such goods, at such price as may be determined by
such manufacturer or producer, from time totime ;Interpretation.
10Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006
“Inland   Revenue  Act”  means  the    Inland   Revenue
Act, No.10 of  2006 or any successor theretoproviding for the taxation of income ;
“partnership”, “proceeds” and “profits or income” shall
have the respective meanings assigned to them inthe Inland Revenue Act ;
“person” includes a company or a body of persons, but
does not include –
(a) any registered society, within the  meaning of
the Co-operative Societies Law,  No. 5 of1972:
(b) any non-resident person carrying on business
as an owner or charterer of an  aircraft or ship:
“quarter” in relation to any year of assessment means the
period of three months commencing on the first dayrespectively of April, July, October or January ofthat year of assessment ; and
“statutory income”, “taxable income”, ”trade” and  “years
of assessment” shall have the respective meaningsassigned to them in the Inland Revenue Act.
PART II
A
MENDMENT  OF PART I OF THE FINANCE
ACT, NO. 11 OF 2004
14.Part I of the Finance Act, No. 11 of 2004 is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) in subsection (1) of section 2 thereof, by the
substitution for the words “on or after April 1, 2004(hereinafter in this Act referred to as “the relevantyear of assessment”)” of the words “on or after April1, 2004 (hereinafter in this Act referred to as “therelevant year of assessment”) and ending on March31, 2006,”;Amendment ofPart I of Act, No.11 of 2004.
11 Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006
(2) in paragraph ( b) of subsection (2) of section 7  thereof,
(inserted by Act, No. 7 of 2005) by the substitutionfor the words and figures “item (2)” of the words andfigures “item (3)”.
15.It is hereby declared for the avoidance of doubts,
that the provisions of Part I of the Finance Act No. 11 of 2004shall not apply to the levy of the Economic Service Chargefrom any person or partnership in respect of any relevant yearof assessment commencing on or after April 1, 2006.
16.Where there is any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.
SCHEDULE (Section 2)
Part of the Liable Rate of the Service
Turnover Charge Applicable
to that Part
1. Such  part  of  the relevant  turnover
as  consists  of  the  turnover  fromany trade, business, profession  orvocation the  profits  and  incomefrom which  are exempt  fromincome  tax.
2. Such  part  of  the  relevant  turnover
as  consists of  the  turnover  fromany trade, business, profession  orvocation  of any enterprise whichhas entered into an agreementunder the Board of Investment ofSri Lanka Law, N
O. 4 of 1978.
(i) being the relevant turnover
during the period for whichthe profits and income of suchenterprise are exempt fromincome tax under suchagreement.
(ii)being the relevant turnover
during the period for whichthe profits and income of suchSinhala text to
prevail in case ofinconsistencyPart I of the
Finance ActNo.11 of 2004not to apply
0.25  percentum
0.50  percentum0.25  percentum
12Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006
enterprise are taxable at the rate
equal to a rate specified in theFifth Schedule to the InlandRevenue Act
3. Such  part  of  the  relevant   turnover
as  consists of  the  turnover  fromany  trade, business, profession  orvocation  the  profits  and  incomefrom  which are  chargeable  withincome  tax  at  any  rate  specifiedin  the   Fifth Schedule  to  theInland  Revenue  Act other than initem 28 of that schedule
4. Such  part  of  the   relevant   turnover
as  consists of  the  turnover  fromany  trade, business, profession  orvocation the  profits  and  incomefrom  which  are  chargeable  withincome  tax  at  any  rate  other thanany  rate  specified  in  the  FifthSchedule  to  the  Inland  RevenueAct.
5. Such  part  of  the  relevant  turnover
as  consists of  the  turnover  fromany  trade or business which dealsin the wholesale (other than as adistributor) or retail of such goods,not manufactured or produced bythe dealer.
6. Such  part  of  the   relevant   turnover
as  consists of  the  turnover  fromthe primary conversion of anyproduce of any tea, rubber orcoconut plantation other than anysuch conversion which produces anyalcoholic beverage.
7. Such part of the relevant turnover
as consists of the turnover from anytrade, or business of a distributor
8. Such part of the relevant turnover
as consists of the turnover from anytrade or business of carrying on anyactivity referred to in item 28 of theFifth Schedule to the InlandRevenue Act.0.5  percentum
1.0  percentum
0.5  percentum
0.5  percentum
0.1  percentum
1.00  percentum
13 Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the S UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS
HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.