PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
CIVIL AVIATION  ACT, No. 14 OF 2010
Printed on the Order of Government[Certified on 03rd November, 2010]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT  OF GOVERNMENT  PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED  AT THE GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 45.00 Postage : Rs. 20.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 04, 2010
1 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
2—PL 005201–4,190 (09/2010)Short title and
date ofoperation.
Convention to
govern civilaviation activitieswithin
Sri Lanka.
Application of
the provisions ofthis Act.[Certified on 03rd November, 2010]
L.D. – O. 52/2000.A
N ACT TO MAKE PROVISION  FOR THE REGULATION , CONTROL AND
MATTERS RELATED TO CIVIL AVIATION; TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE
CONVENTION  ON INTERNATIONAL  CIVIL AVIATION AND FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED  THEREWITH  AND INCIDENTAL  THERETO.
BE it enacted by the  Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1.This Act may be cited as the Civil Aviation Act,
No. 14 of 2010, and shall come into operation on such date(hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”) as theMinister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette.
CHAPTER I
P
RELIMINARY
2.The Articles of the Convention relating to safety,
regularity, efficiency and security of civil aviation as arespecified in the Schedule to this Act, shall govern allactivities relating to civil aviation within the territory ofSri Lanka.
3.(1)  The provisions of this Act shall apply in respect
of all activities relating to civil aviation within the territoryof Sri Lanka and in particular, in respect of the following:—
(a) aircraft registered in Sri Lanka and all aviation
personnel licensed under this Act, whether suchpersonnel are within or outside the territory ofSri Lanka;
(b) aircraft other than those registered in Sri Lanka and
users of aeronautical services being provided within
the territory of Sri Lanka;
2 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
Responsibilities
of the Minister.(c) the regulation, administration and safety oversight
of activities relating to civil aviation carried out
within the territory of Sri Lanka;
(d) the provision of aeronautical services; and
(e) other matters relating to the safe and orderly
operation and development, including the
economic development of civil air navigation and
air transport.
(2) The provisions of this Act and any regulations and
rules made thereunder, shall not apply in respect of anyaircraft or Aerodrome exclusively used in the service of or
for the purposes of the Armed Forces.
(3) The application of the provisions of this Act in respect
of aircraft in the use of the Government of Sri Lanka shall beto the extent as may be determined by the Minister, by Order
published in the Gazette.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2) and
subsection (3) of this section, the provisions of this Act shall
apply in respect of aircraft operated by the Armed Forcesand aircraft in the use of the Government of Sri Lanka, wheresuch aircraft are engaged in the carriage of passengers orcargo for hire or for reward.
4.The Minister shall be responsible for the
development, regulation and control of civil aviation inSri Lanka and in the  discharge of such responsibilities, theMinister shall —
(a) make recommendations to the Cabinet of Ministers
in regard to the formulation of a National Aviation
Policy for Sri Lanka;
(b) periodically review and analyse the aforesaid
National Aviation Policy and where necessaryrecommend to the Cabinet of Ministers, any
changes to such Policy;
3 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
Minister to
delegate his
powers under the
Act.(c) promulgate regulations for the implementation of
the provisions  of this Act and for the fulfillment ofinternational obligations of Sri Lanka in respect ofthe SARPS;
(d) assist and advise the Government to secure by
international agreement or otherwise, the rights forSri Lanka in international air traffic and to initiateand direct negotiations thereon;
(e) establish, develop, maintain and provide
aeronautical services and other facilities andservices relating to civil aviation;
(f) initiate projects, technical researches, studies or
investigations which in the opinion of the  Ministerwill promote the development of civil aviationactivities in Sri Lanka;
(g) specify the  charges, fees and costs to be paid with
respect to the grant of any certificate, licence, permitor authorization  or for  the rendering of any servicesunder the provisions of this Act and the CivilAviation Authority of Sri Lanka Act;
(h) issue directions to the Authority as the Minister
may consider necessary to perform any functionrelating to civil aviation for which no specificprovisions are made  under this Act or the CivilAviation Authority of Sri Lanka Act, as the casemay be, or in any regulations or rules made underthose Acts ; and
(i) undertake any other  activity or function in relation
to civil aviation as he may consider appropriate, inconcurrence with the Authority.
5.(1) The Minister may delegate all or any of his
powers, duties or functions under this Act to the Authorityor to the Director General, who shall exercise, perform or
4 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
Appointment of
ServiceProviders.discharge such powers, duties or functions, subject to suchdirections as may be issued by the Minister.
(2) The Minister may notwithstanding any delegation
under subsection (1), have the power to exercise, perform ordischarge any power, duty or functions delegated under thatsubsection.
CHAPTER II
A
PPOINTMENT  OF SERVICE PROVIDERS
6.(1)  For the purpose of providing the aeronautical
services specified in section 31 of this Act, the Minister inconsultation with the Authority may, subject to theprovisions of subsection (3), appoint by Order published inthe Gazette, any person or persons, to be a Service Provider
(hereinafter referred to as “Service Provider”) subject to suchterms and conditions as may be specified in such Order.
(2) The terms and conditions specified in the Order made
under subsection (1) may be amended from time to time bya subsequent Order made in that behalf by the Minister inconsultation with the Authority.  It shall be the duty of aService Provider whose terms and conditions are so amendedby such Order, to comply with the same.
(3) The following provisions shall apply in regard to
the appointment of Service Providers by the Minister undersubsection (1) :—
(a) the Statutory Service Provider shall be appointed
as the Service Provider for the purpose of  providingthe aeronautical services specified in:—
(i) paragraph ( a) of section 31 and for the
provision of aeronautical services specifiedin paragraphs ( c) and (d) of that section at any
International Aerodrome referred to inparagraph ( a) ; and
(ii)paragraphs ( e), (f), (g) and (h) of section 31 ;
5 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
Requirement to
enter into serviceagreements.(b) where the Statutory Service Provider  consents to
be appointed to provide in respect of any particular
Aerodrome the aeronautical services specified in
paragraph  ( b) of section 31,  appoint such Statutory
Service Provider, as the Service Provider to provide
those aeronautical  services and the aeronautical
services specified in paragraphs ( c) and (d) of that
section, in respect of those Aerodromes;
(c)  appoint any other Service Provider to provide in
respect of any particular Aerodrome the aeronautical
service specified in paragraph ( b) of section 31,
other than those in respect of which the Statutory
Service Provider was appointed as the Service
Provider under paragraph ( b);
(d) not more than one Service Provider shall be
appointed in respect of a particular Aerodrome, for
the provision of the aeronautical services specified
in paragraphs ( c) and (d)  of section 31; and
(e) appoint a Service Provider which is a public
corporation or a company in which the Government
holds a majority of shares, for providing the
aeronautical services specified in paragraphs ( i),
(j), (k), (l) or (m) of section 31 at any Aerodrome
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of that section:
Provided that where a Service Provider
appointed under this paragraph does not consent
to provide the aeronautical services referred to
therein at any Aerodrome specified in paragraph
(a) or (b) of section 31, the Minister may appoint
any other Service Provider to provide the
aeronautical services referred to in this paragraph .
7.(1)  A Service Provider being appointed to provide
the aeronautical services specified in paragraphs ( i), (j), (k),
(l) and (m) of section 31 shall be required, before being so
appointed, to enter into a service agreement or agreements,
6 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
Providing
properties toServiceProviders.as the case be, with the Service Provider appointed to provide
the aeronautical service specified in paragraph ( a) or
paragraph ( b), as the case may be, of section 31.
(2) Where a Service Provider or Service Providers,  other
than the Statutory Service Provider is appointed to provide
the aeronautical services specified in paragraph  ( b), of
section of 31, such Sevice Provider or Service Providers
shall  be required  to enter into a service agreement or
agreements, as the case may be, with the Statutory Service
Provider who is appointed to provide the aeronautical
services specified in paragraphs (e), (f), (g) and (h), where the
nature and scope of the services provided by such Service
Provider or Service Providers as the case may be, has any
direct safety or security impact on the aeronautical service
to be provided by the Statutory Service Provider.
(3) Prior to the appointment of any Service Provider
under section 6 of this Act, the Minister shall decide as to
whether the contents of the applicable service agreement or
agreements referred to in subsections (1) and (2) of this
section, provide for adequate sharing of information, proper
co-ordination of all activities in providing aeronautical
services by the parties to the agreement and the use of
properties, facilities or services in each others possession or
control, so as to ensure a safe, efficient, regular and smooth
operation of aeronautical services within Sri Lanka.
8.(1) The Authority may by Order published in the
Gazette and subject to such terms and conditions as may be
specified in such Order, make available where necessary, to
any Service Provider appointed under section 6, any
immovable property or Aerodromes, including such
immovable properties and the Aerodromes transferred to and
vested in the Authority, for the purpose of enabling the Service
Provider to discharge its functions in the provision of such
aeronautical services in respect of which that Service Provider
has been issued with a licence under this Chapter of this Act.
7 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
Prohibition
againstappointment ofcertain personsas ServiceProviders etc.
Licences
required forprovidingaeronauticalservices.
Issue of licence
for providingaeronauticalservices.(2) It shall be the duty of a Service Provider to whom any
property or Aerodromes are made available under subsection(1), to comply with the terms and conditions stipulated in
the Order and hold and maintain such immovable property
or Aerodromes in good condition.
(3) A Service provider to whom any immovable property
or Aerodromes are made available under subsection (1),
shall not :—
(a) effect any alteration in such property or Aerodrome
or put up any new constructions in such property; or
(b) grant a lease of any such property or Aerodrome to
anyone,
without the prior written approval of the Authority.
9. No person or body of persons shall be appointed as a
Service Provider or be entitled to be issued with a licence to
provide aeronautical services under the provisions of this
Act, where such person or body of persons poses or is likelyto pose a threat to the public security of Sri Lanka or tointernational civil aviation.
10. The provision of aeronautical services shall be in
terms of a licence issued in that behalf by the Authority orthe Director General, as the case may be, and a Service
Provider appointed under section 6 shall be eligible to apply
for such a licence.  Separate licences shall be issued in respectof each of the categories of aeronautical services specifiedin section 31.
11.(1) In terms of the provisions of section 10 of this
Act, a Service Provider may be issued with a licence forproviding aeronautical services in respect of each categoryof services as are specified in —
(a) paragraphs ( i), (j), (k), (l) and (m) of section 31, by
the Authority ; and
(b) paragraphs ( a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) and (h) of
section 31, by the Director General.
8 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(2) The requirements to be fulfilled for the grant of a
licence under subsection (1), the procedure for making an
application, the terms and conditions to be attached to a
licence, information to be furnished by applicants and fees
or any other charges to be paid for the issue of a licence,
shall be as prescribed.
(3) The requirements to be prescribed under subsection
(2) for the issue of a licence to provide aeronautical services
may vary, depending on the scope, the nature or the place
where the particular aeronautical service is being provided.
(4) All licences issued under subsection (1) by the
Authority or the Director General, as the case may be, shall
be valid until or unless suspended or revoked under section
26. An annual licence fee as may be prescribed shall be
imposed on all persons to whom a licence is issued under
subsection (1).
12.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 7 of
this Act, the Authority may require a Service Provider to
whom a licence to provide any aeronautical service is issued
under section 11, to enter into a service agreement with a
person to whom a  permit  or any licence, other than a licence
to provide  any aeronautical service, is issued by the Authority
under this Act, where the Authority is of the view that the
aeronautical  services being provided by such Service
Provider under the licence issued to it, is an aeronautical
service which is  necessarily required by the person to whom
the licence or permit has been issued, in order to carry out
the activities for which such licence or permit was issued to
such person.
(2) It shall be the duty of each Service Provider to furnish
the Authority with a copy of every service agreement entered
into under subsection (1) of this section. The Authority shall
keep such copy or copies of all service agreements furnished
to it in its custody. The Minister may at any time request
that he be furnished with a copy and it shall be the function
of the Authority to make the same available to the Minister.Service
Providers toenter into serviceagreements withany holder of alicence orpermit.
9 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
Classification of
Aerodromes.
Establishment of
Aerodromes.13.(1) The Authority shall classify Aerodromes in
accordance with such regulations as shall be prescribed forthat purpose. The regulations to be made by the Minister forsuch purpose, shall be based on design, operating conditions,aeronautical services provided and the scope of the use andpurpose of Aerodromes.
(2)  The Authority shall cause to be published in the
Aeronautical Information Publication of Sri Lanka,particulars of any Aerodromes classified as an InternationalAerodrome under subsection (1) and all other Aerodromesavailable within the territory of Sri Lanka.
14.(1)  Any person who seeks to establish or any licence
holder who seeks to expand an Aerodrome, shall prepare inaccordance with such requirements as shall be prescribed bythe Minister, a Master Plan which shall identify and providefor :—
(a) the development of physical facilities of the
Aerodrome, both aviation and non-aviation;
(b) the development of land use for areas surrounding
an Aerodrome;
(c) the assessment of the effect the construction and
operation of the Aerodrome will have on theenvironment;
(d) access requirements of the Aerodrome; and
(e) security aspects of the Aerodrome and the cost and
financial outlay of the project.
(2) The establishment or expansion, as the case may be,
of an Aerodrome, shall not commence until the Master Planin respect of the same has been approved by the Authority.The Authority shall before it approves a Master Plan, consultany other statutory authority where it considers such
10 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
Master Plan once
approved need
no further
approval.
Issue of licences
for Aerodromes.consultation appropriate or necessary and whose views and
observations on the proposed establishment or expansionand its effect on environment and any other factor, needs to
be considered before such Master Plan is approved.
(3) An approval granted under subsection (2), shall be
subject to such terms and conditions and to the payment of
a fee as determined by the Authority.  The Authority shallcause a Notice relating to any approval granted, to be
published in the Gazette.
(4) A copy of the approved Master Plan, other than the
information referred to in paragraph (e) of subsection (1),
shall be kept in the office of the Authority and be madeavailable to the public for inspection, on payment of a fee as
may be determined by the Authority.
(5) The Authority may from time to time where it considers
necessary or on the request of the person to whom approval
was granted under subsection (2), require a Master Plan tobe reviewed or evaluated and appropriate modifications or
adjustments made thereto, to address any changes that may
have taken place since the approval of such Master Plan.
15.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in any other written law, a Master Plan once approvedunder section 14 of this Act, shall not be subject to or be
required to be further approved or accepted under any other
written law.
16.(1) Subject to the provisions of section 13, on and
after the appointed date, no Aerodrome other than theAerodromes used exclusively by the Sri Lanka Air Force,
whether owned by the Government or privately owned, shall
be maintained, operated or improved, except in conformitywith a licence issued under subsection (1) of section 11 by
the Director General and subject to the terms and conditions
of such licence.
11 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(2) For the purpose of issuing a licence referred to in
subsection (1), the operation of an Aerodrome shall include
those activities that secure:—
(a)  the take-off and landing of an aircraft and the related
movements of the aircraft on ground;
(b) the protection and care for the aircraft; and
(c)  maintenance and improvement of the Aerodrome.
(3) An application for the issue of a licence under
subsection (1) shall be made to the Director General, along
with the prescribed application fee.
(4) The criteria for licensing of Aerodromes shall be based
on the classification of Aerodromes by the Authority under
subsection (1) of section 13.
17.(1) The Authority shall formulate a National Civil
Aviation Security Programme, in accordance with the
relevant SARPS.
(2) It shall be the duty of a Service Provider to whom a
licence is issued by the Director General for the provision
and maintenance of an Aviation Security Service, to establish
in accordance with the National Civil Aviation Security
Programme formulated by the Authority under subsection
(1), a programme specifying the human and other resources
that shall be used and the procedures that shall be followed
by such Service Provider, for each of the following
purposes:—
(a) preventing, detecting, deterring and responding to
an unlawful interference with aviation at the
Aerodrome or at any other place or location where
aeronautical services are being provided;
(b) responding to an unlawful interference with
aviation against an aircraft or an aircraft in flight ;National Civil
AviationSecurityProgramme.
12 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
Duties of Service
Providerproviding anAviationSecurity Service.(c) responding to a threat of an unlawful interference
with aviation against an aircraft or an aircraft in
flight ;
(d) preventing unauthorized people from having access
to an aircraft, areas of the Aerodrome or to any otherarea where any aeronautical services are being
provided ; and
(e) reporting the occurrence or threat of occurrence of
any unlawful interference with the performance of
the duties of the Service Provider to whom such anAerodrome licence has been issued.
18. (1)   A Service Provider who is providing and
maintaining an Aviation Security Service within the limitsof an Aerodrome or at any other place or location whereaeronautical services are being provided, shall be requiredto provide such services in conformity with the national
security policy of the State, and shall:—
(a) protect and safeguard the property of the
Government of Sri Lanka and of the other users of
such Aerodrome, the safety of  persons who enter or
use the Aerodrome and of the aircraft and otherequipments which are within the limits of theAerodrome ;
(b) prevent the breach of any law and the occurrence of
any nuisance within the Aerodrome and at any other
place or location where aeronautical services are
being provided;
(c) apprehend any disorderly or suspicious person
within the Aerodrome or at any other place or
location where aeronautical services are being
provided ; and
(d) comply with any directions given to such Service
Provider by the Authority or the Director General,
as the case may be, in relation to safety and security
of the Aerodrome or any place or location whereaeronautical services are being provided, its usersand property within, including an aircraft.
13 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(2) In the performance of the duties referred to in
subsection (1), it shall be lawful for any employee of such
Service Provider, to detain any person:—
(a) who  commits or is committing an offence under
this Act, the Offences Against Aircraft Act, No. 24
of 1982 or the Suppression of Unlawful Acts of
Violence at Airports Serving International Civil
Aviation Act, No. 31 of 1996 ;
(b) against whom a reasonable suspicion exists that he
is about to commit an offence under this Act, the
Offences Against Aircraft Act, No. 24 of 1982 or
the Suppression of Unlawful Acts of Violence at
Airports Serving International Civil Aviation Act,
No. 31 of 1996 ;
(c) against whom a reasonable suspicion exists that he
had aided and abetted the commission of any
offence under this Act, the Offences Against Aircraft
Act, No. 24 of 1982 or the Suppression of Unlawful
Acts of Violence at Airports Serving International
Civil Aviation Act, No. 31 of 1996 ;
(d)  having in his custody or possession without a valid
excuse, any offensive or dangerous weapon or
goods, reasonably suspected to be property stolen
or fraudulently obtained within an Aerodrome or
within any other place or location where
aeronautical services are being provided;
(e) who  is committing an offence  within the
Aerodrome or any place or location where any
aeronautical services are being provided, being an
offence in respect of which a person may be arrested
without a  warrant, under section 32 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 ;
(f) who is committing theft of  or damage to any
property within an Aerodrome;
14 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
Power to search.(g) who is found within an Aerodrome or at any place
or location where aeronautical services are beingprovided, in circumstances which provide reasonto believe that such person has committed or isabout to commit theft of or damage to, any propertybelonging to or in the possession of the Governmentof Sri Lanka or within the Aerodrome or the placeor location where aeronautical services are beingprovided ;
(h) found taking precautions to conceal his presence
under circumstances which afford reason to believethat he is taking such precaution with a view tocommitting a cognizable offence within themeaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,No. 15 of  1979 or an offence under this Act, theOffences Against Aircraft Act, No. 24 of 1982 orthe Suppression of Unlawful Acts of Violence atAirports Serving International Civil Aviation Act,No. 31 of 1996 ; or
(i) at the request of the Pilot-in-Command, where such
person was found to have committed an offencewhile the aircraft was in flight.
(3) Any person detained under subsection (2) shall unless
released, be forthwith handed over to a police officer to bedealt with according to law.
19.It shall be lawful for an employee of the Service
Provider providing and maintaining an Aviation SecurityService to search any person, including his belongings orany conveyance used by such person within the premises ofthe Aerodrome or at any other place or location whereaeronautical services are being provided, where there isreason to believe that such person has committed or is aboutto commit a cognizable offence within the meaning of theCode of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, or anyoffence under this Act, the Offences Against Aircraft Act,
15 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
No. 24 of 1982 or the Suppression of Unlawful Acts of
Violence at Airports Serving International Civil Aviation
Act, No. 31 of 1996:
Provided however that, where it is necessary to cause a
woman to be searched, such search shall be carried out byanother woman, with strict regard to decency.
20.In all cases of fire or any other calamity occurring
within an Aerodrome or at any other place or location whereaeronautical services are being provided, it shall be the dutyof every employee of the Service Provider providing andmaintaining an Aviation Security Service who is on dutywithin such Aerodrome or the location or place where the
aeronautical services are being provided, to take all such
necessary steps to protect the persons and propertyendangered thereby.
21.(1)  A Service Provider providing and maintaining
an Aviation Security Service shall be required to obtain a
permit from the Director General pertaining to the numberof employees to be employed by such Service Provider andthe nature, type and quantity of firearms and ammunition tobe used in the provision of such service.
(2) The Director General shall, prior to the issue of a permit
under subsection (1), obtain the approval for the same fromthe Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Defence and a permit so issued shall be subject to
any requirements pertaining to the safety of civil aviatonactivities, that are imposed by the Director General.
22. No suit or prosecution shall lie against a Service
Provider providing and maintaining an Aviation Security
Service or any employee of such Service Provider, the
Director General, the Authority or the Government ofSri Lanka, in respect of any act which is in good faith done,or purported to be done or omitted to be done, by suchService Provider or employee of such Service Provider underthis Act or for the purpose of ensuring the safety or security
of persons or property within or outside an Aerodrome.Action in case of
fire or any othercalamity.
Cadre and
firearms to beused by theService Providerto be approvedby the DirectorGeneral.
Protection for
action taken ingood faith underthis Chapter ofthis Act.
16 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
23.(1)  The Minister may by Order published in the
Gazette, declare any land which is adjacent or contiguous
to:—
(a) an Aerodrome, whether such Aerodrome is
maintained for purposes of civil aviation or is
maintained on a joint user basis ;
(b) any location where equipment for the provision of
aeronautical aids are installed ; or
(c) any area in respect of which a Master Plan for the
establishment of an Aerodrome has been approved
under section 14,
to be a protected area (in this Act referred to as the “Protected
Area”) for the purposes of this Act.
(2) An Order under subsection (1) may define the area of
land by setting out the extent, the assessment number or the
metes and bounds of the land or each of the lands which
comprises of such area of land.
(3) The Director General shall issue in respect of any
Service Provider to whom a licence has been issued to provide
aeronautical aids, instructions, directions or procedures
relating to the use of land in a Protected Area, the creation of
Protected Zones within that area to safeguard safe take-off
and  landing of aircraft, safety in the airspace for take-off
and approach, the environmental protection and the
protection of civil aviation activities against electronic or
other interference from sources outside the Aerodrome.
(4) The Director-General shall issue instructions,
directives and procedures setting out the requirements to be
complied with in regard to the construction of any buildings
or other structures or the making of alterations to any existing
buildings or other structures within the Protected Area and
in respect of distinct lighting and markings in the
neighbourhood of an Aerodrome or air route.Declaration of
Protected Areas.
17 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written
law to the contrary, no person or authority shall issue
permission for the construction of any building or other
structures or for carrying alterations to any existing buildingor structure within a Protected Area, except under theauthority of a permit issued by the Director General andwhere any building is constructed or any alteration is carriedout without obtaining such a permit, the Authority shall
have the power to have such building or alteration, as the
case may be, demolished at the cost of the owner.
24.(1) Where any land in any Protected Area other than
State land, is required by the Authority for any purpose underthis Act and the Minister approves the proposed acquisition,the land proposed to be acquired shall for the purpose of theapplication of the Land Acquisition Act, be deemed to berequired for a public purpose and may be acquired under
that Act and transferred to the Authority
(2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of land for the
Authority under the Land Acquisition Act shall be paid outof the Fund.
25.It shall be lawful for a Service Provider who is issued
with a licence or permit under this Chapter of this Act, togive such instructions, consistent with the provisions of thisAct and subject to any directives that may be issued in thatbehalf by the Minister or the Director General, as the case
may be, to all users of the aeronautical service provided by
that Service Provider under such licence.  It shall be the dutyof all persons who use such aeronautical service, to complywith such instructions.
26.(1) A licence issued to a Service Provider under this
Chapter of this Act may, with the concurrence of the Minister,be suspended or revoked by the Authority or the DirectorGeneral, as the case may be, who issued such licence, on the
ground of:—
(a) non-compliance or refusal to comply with:—
(i) the terms and conditions of the licence;Issuing
instructions bylicence holders.
Suspension and
revocation oflicences.Acquisition of
land in anyProtected Area.
18 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(ii)  any provisions of this Act or any regulations
or rules made thereunder; or
(iii) any instructions or directives issued by the
Minister, the Authority or the DirectorGeneral, as the case may be;
(b)  non-payment of any fees or charges required to be
paid; or
(c)  such other reasons as determined by the Authority
or the Director General, as the case may be, thatwould affect the smooth operation of the serviceprovided under the licence or the safety of suchoperation.
(2) A suspension under subsection (1) shall not be for a
period of more than three months.
(3) A Service Provider whose licence is suspended or
revoked under subsection (1), may appeal against suchsuspension or revocation, to the Secretary to the Ministry ofthe Minister, whose decision on such appeal shall be finaland conclusive and shall not be appealed against in anycourt or tribunal.
27.(1) Where a licence for the provision of any
aeronautical services issued to a Service Provider issuspended, it shall be duty of the  Authority during theperiod of such suspension,  to ensure:—
(a) the continuity of the provision of the aeronautical
services that were  being provided by such ServiceProvider; and
(b) the continuity of any contractual obligations or
rights arising from any agreements that may havebeen entered into by such Service Provider since
the issue of the licence that has being suspended.Providing
aeronauticalservices during asuspension of alicence.
19 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(2) In providing aeronautical services by the Authority
during the period referred to in subsection (1), the Authoritymay, without prejudice and notwithstanding anything tothe contrary contained in a contract of employment relatingto the rights and duties of any employee of the ServiceProvider whose licence has been suspended, obtain theservices of any such employee and where necessary, theservices of any other Service Provider.
(3) Any payment or charge required to be made for
obtaining the services referred to in subsection (2) shallbe paid by the Authority out of its Fund.
28.(1) Where an aeronautical licence issued to any
Service Provider is revoked under section 26, the Authorityshall forthwith inform all other Service Providers of suchrevocation and it shall be the duty of every person who hasentered into any agreements or contracts with such ServiceProvider, to provide the Authority with details of all suchagreements and the obligations that remain to be fulfilledunder any such agreement by such Service Provider, at thetime of the revocation of the licence.
(2) Where a licence for the provision of any aeronautical
service issued to a Service Provider is revoked and  theAuthority is of the opinion that in the national interest andalso in the interest of the aviation industry in Sri Lanka, alicence should be issued to another Service Provider toprovide those aeronautical services, it shall be theresponsibility of the Authority to:—
(a) ensure the continuity of the provision of such
aeronautical service or services that were beingprovided by the  Service Provider whose licence isbeing revoked, until a  new licence is issued forthat purpose to another Service Provider;
(b) make available to any other Service Provider or
Service Providers, as the case may be, to whom aProviding
aeronauticalservices etc. onthe revocationof a licence.
20 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
new licence or licences  may be issued, all the
property that was made available to the  Service
Provider whose licence was revoked, to enable  suchother Service Provider or Service Providers, as the
case may be, to provide the aeronautical service
or services under the new  licence or licences soissued; and
(c) ensure that the Service Provider or Providers to
whom a new licence or licences are issued, fulfill
all contractual obligations or rights arising from
any agreements that may have been entered into bythe Service Provider whose licence was revoked,
where in the opinion of the Authority, the interest
of the aviation  industry warrants the fulfillment ofthose obligations.
29.During the period of suspension of a licence issued
to a Service Provider, such Service Provider shall not have
access to any property that may have been made available
to such Service Provider under section 8 of this Act, andwhere a licence is revoked, all property that has been made
available to such Service Provider under that section, shall
be vested with the Authority and the Authority may makethat property available to any other Service Provider or
Service Providers, as the case may be, to whom a licence was
issued for the provision of such aeronautical service, undersection  28.
30.Nothing contained in the preceding provisions of
this Chapter of this Act shall preclude the Authority, with
the approval of the Minister, from providing on its own, any
category of aeronautical services specified in section 31,where it considers it expedient or necessary to do so:
Provided however, where such aeronautical service is a
service in respect of which the Director General is required
to issue a licence under this Chapter of this Act, the Authority
shall provide such service only with the concurrence of theDirector General.Effect on
propertytransferred onasuspension orcancellation of alicence.
Authority to
have power toprovideaeronauticalservices.
21 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
31.For the purposes of this Act “aeronautical services”
means:—
(a) the development, operation and maintenance of
Aerodromes classified as an InternationalAerodrome, under subsection (1) of section 13;
(b) the development, operation and maintenance  of
Aerodromes other than those referred to in
paragraph ( a) and the provision of Aerodrome
facilities at such Aerodromes;
(c) the provision and maintenance of search, rescue
and fire fighting services at Aerodromes;
   (d) the provision and maintenance of an Aviation
Security Service;
   (e) the provision of Air Traffic Services ;
   (f) the provision of Aeronautical Information Services;
   (g) the provision of Aeronautical Communication
Services;
   (h) the provision of aeronautical aids for
communication, navigation or surveillance;
   (i) the provision of services relating to the supply of
aviation fuel and lubricant to aircraft;
(j) the provision of assistance or equipment for
dispatch of aircraft on the apron, including aircraftcleaning services;
(k) the provision of ground handling facilities or
services to aircraft;
(l) the provision of catering services to aircraft; and
(m) the supply of any other service to an aircraft, other
than the services specified above.Definition of
“aeronauticalservices”.
22 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
CHAPTER III
REGULATION  OF CIVIL AVIATION
32.(1) No foreign military or state aircraft may enter
the territory of Sri Lanka, without a special permission orauthorization for the same being obtained from the Secretaryto the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of
Defence.
(2) No foreign civil aircraft may enter the territory of
Sri Lanka without a special permission or authorization fromthe Director General.
33.For purpose of fulfilling the international
obligations of Sri Lanka regarding the safety, security ofcivil aircraft and interception procedures, the Minister shallco-ordinate the operation of state and military aircraft, inconsultation with the Minister in charge of the subject of
Defence.
34.(1) In time of an armed conflict whether actual or
imminent or in the case of any national emergency, noticeof which has been given in conformity with the requirementsspecified in the Convention, the Minister in charge of the
subject of Defence may by general or special order, regulate
or prohibit, either absolutely or subject to such conditionsas may be specified in the Order, the navigation of all or anydescriptions of aircraft in or over the territory of Sri Lanka orany portion thereof, and may thereafter in consultation withthe Minister, by any subsequent Order, authorize  only for
such purpose, the armed forces to take possession of and use
any Aerodrome, landing ground, aircraft, aircraftmanufacturing or maintenance facility together with allmachinery, plant, material or things found therein or thereon,and for regulating or prohibiting the use, erection, building,maintenance or establishment of any aerodrome, flying
school or landing ground.
(2) Any person, who suffers direct loss owing to the
operation of an Order made under subsection (1), shall beEntry by foreign
Military or Stateaircraft.
Special powers
in case ofemergency.Coordination of
operations inconsultationwith Minister ofDefence.
23 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
entitled to receive compensation from the Minister in charge
of the subject of Defence from such moneys as may be
provided by Parliament for the purpose. The amount of
compensation to be paid shall in default of agreement
between the parties interested, be fixed by an arbitrator to be
agreed upon between such parties :
Provided however, that no compensation shall be payable
by reason of the operation of a general Order under this
section prohibiting flying over the territory of Sri Lanka or
any part thereof.
35.No person whose performance of duty required of
him as an aviation personnel has an effect on the safety of
civil aircraft operations in the State, shall perform such duty
while under the influence of any psychoactive substance by
reason of which human performance is impaired or use any
other substance which might jeopardize the safe performance
of his duties.
36.The Director-General or any person duly authorized
by the Director-General, shall have unrestricted access to
any aircraft whilst it is in Sri Lanka, for the purpose of
ensuring that such aircraft is airworthy, that it carries the
required documentation and is being operated in accordance
with the provisions of this Act, or any regulation, rules or
implementing standards issued thereunder.
37.The Director General or any person duly authorized
by the Director General, shall have the power to direct the
operator or the crew of an aircraft not to operate the aircraft,
in situations where he has sufficient reasons to believe that:—
(a) the aircraft is not airworthy;
(b) the crew is not qualified or is physically or mentally
in capable of operating the flight;
(c) the operation would cause imminent danger to
persons or property; orInspection of
aircraft.
Director General
to prevent aflight.Restrictions on
aviationpersonnel.
24 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(d) the aircraft does not have an approved dispatch
procedure or is not dispatched in accordance withapproved dispatch procedures,
and shall in such a situation, take all such steps as are
necessary, to detain the aircraft or crew.
38.(1) Where the Director General believes on
reasonable grounds that the operation of any particular
aircraft or all aircraft belonging to that class, or the use ofany particular aircraft component or any component ofthat class or any Aerodromes or the provision of anyaeronautical service, may endanger any person or propertyof any person and that prompt action should be taken to
prevent or avert such threat or danger, the Director General
may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained inany licence or permit or certificate issued under this Act:—
(a) suspend, prohibit or impose conditions on the
operation of any specified aircraft or aircraft
belonging to that class or of such Aerodrome or theprovision of such aeronautical service;
(b) suspend, prohibit or impose conditions on the use
of any specified aircraft component or anycomponents of that class ; or
(c) detain the aircraft or seize the aircraft component
in order to prevent their operation or use.
(2) Any detention or seizure under paragraph ( c) of
subsection (1) shall forthwith be notified to the owner oroperator of the aircraft or component or to the Service
Provider, as the case may be.
CHAPTER IV
R
EGISTRATION  AND MARKING OF AIRCRAFT
39.An aircraft shall not fly in or over the territory of
Sri Lanka, unless it is registered:—
(a) in Sri Lanka ;Actions to be
taken to preventa threat ordanger to personor property.
Aircraft not to
fly unlessregistered.
25 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(b) in a State Party to the Convention; or
(c) in a country with which the Government of Sri Lanka
has in force an agreement which provides for the
flight in or over the territory of Sri Lanka, of aircraftregistered in that country.
40.Notwithstanding the provisions of section 39, an
aircraft not registered as required by that section may be
permitted to fly in or over the territory of Sri Lanka under
the authority of a permit issued by the Director General.Such a permit may be issued for the purpose of or inconnection with enabling an aircraft to be used for anyexperimental or test purpose or for any other purpose whichappears to the Director General as being sufficient to permit
such aircraft to fly unregistered, provided that in any such
case, the aircraft shall be flown in accordance with suchconditions or limitations as may be specified in the permitissued by the Director General.
41.(1) Any aircraft which is not currently registered
and entered in an Aircraft Register of any other State shallbe eligible for registration in Sri Lanka, where:—
(a)  it is owned by a citizen of Sri Lanka or a body
corporate or a body incorporated by any law of
Sri Lanka, having its principal place of business in
Sri Lanka;
(b)  in the case of a State aircraft, the aircraft is fully
owned by the Government of Sri Lanka or any
public corporation; or
(c)  in the case of a leased aircraft, if it is exclusively
operated by an operator having its principal placeof business in Sri Lanka and who has a current and
appropriate Air Operator Certificate issued by the
Director-General.
(2) Where subsequent to it being registered the ownership
of an aircraft registered in Sri Lanka changes, it shall be theExperiment or
test flights.
Registration of
aircrafts.
26 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
duty of the holder of the Certificate of Registration issued
under section 42, to forthwith inform the Director General of
such change, and surrender the Certificate of Registration to
the Director General.
42.(1) An owner or operator of an aircraft eligible to be
registered under section 41, may make an application in the
prescribed form to the Director-General, for registration in
Sri Lanka of such aircraft and the Director-General may,
where he is satisfied on the information contained in the
application, that the aircraft complies with all such
requirements as may be prescribed for that purpose, register
the aircraft.
(2) Where an aircraft is registered in Sri Lanka, the
Director General shall on payment of the prescribed fee,
issue in respect of such aircraft a Certificate of Registration
and assign a mark to enable the identification of the
nationality and a Registration Mark unique to such aircraft.
(3) A Certificate issued under subsection (2) shall
generally be valid for a period not exceeding one year,
provided that the Director General may at his discretion,
issue a Certificate valid for a period more than one year.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2) of
this section, the Director General may as an interim measure,
issue a Provisional Certificate of Registration in respect of
any aircraft, if such aircraft:—
(a) is to be brought into Sri Lanka for the purpose of
registration; or
(b) is to be used for experimental or test purposes; or
(c) is to be brought into Sri Lanka or is to be used for
any purpose as shall be determined by the Director
General.Application for
and issue of aCertificate ofRegistration.
27 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
43.(1) The Director-General shall keep and maintain a
register called and known as the “Civil Aircraft Register ofSri Lanka” in which particulars relating to all aircraftregistered in Sri Lanka and any other information as may beprescribed, shall be entered.
(2) The Civil Aircraft Register of Sri Lanka shall be made
available to the public for inspection, on the payment to theAuthority of a prescribed fee.
(3) Information contained in the Civil Aircraft Register
of Sri Lanka pertaining to any aircraft registered in Sri Lanka,shall be prima facie evidence of the ownership of such
aircraft , and an extract from such Register duly certified bythe Director General as a true extract, shall be acted upon asprima facie evidence of the contents contained therein.
44.(1) A Certificate of Registration issued under section
42, may be cancelled by the Director General on any one ormore of the following grounds:—
(a) failure to inform the Director General of a change
in the ownership of an aircraft, after its registration;
(b) destruction of the registered aircraft or any
destruction being caused to the hull of such aircraft;or
(c) the Director General has sufficient evidence to
believe that the registration was obtainedfraudulently or by submitting false or incorrectinformation.
(2) Where a registration is cancelled on any ground
specified in subsection (1), the Director-General shall causeall information pertaining to such cancellation to be recordedin the Civil Aircraft Register of Sri Lanka and the holder ofsuch Certificate of Registration shall be required forthwithto surrender such Certificate to the Director General.Civil AircraftRegister of SriLanka.
Cancellation of
Certificate ofRegistration.
28 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
45.A holder of a Certificate of Registration may,
not less than one month prior to the expiry of such
Certificate, apply to the Director General for a renewal of
the Certificate in such form as shall be prescribed and the
Director General may, on the payment of the prescribed
renewal fee, renew the Certificate for a further period of one
year or such lesser period as may be determined by the
Director General.
46.Unless otherwise authorised by the Director-General
in writing, each aircraft shall carry and display in the
prescribed manner, its nationality and Registration Mark.
47.(1) An aircraft registered in Sri Lanka shall not
bear on any part of its exterior surface any advertisement or
any sign or lettering, except those permitted under the
provisions of this Act or as required or permitted by the
Director  General.
(2) The name and emblem of the operator of the aircraft
and the National Flag of Sri Lanka may be displayed on any
aircraft registered in Sri Lanka, (if its location, size, shape
and colour does not interfere with the easy recognition of
and are not capable of confusion with, the nationality and
Registration Marks of the aircraft) in such manner that they
are distinct and are not likely to create confusion with the
markings used by any Military aircraft or State aircraft, as
the case may be.
(3) The Civil Air Ensign of Sri Lanka shall not be flown,
painted or otherwise displayed on any aircraft, except with
the approval of and subject to such conditions as are
specified by the Director General in writing.
(4) An aircraft shall not without the prior written approval
of the Director General, be parked, moved or housed at any
place other than its principal place of station as indicated in
the Certificate of Registration.Renewal of
Certificate ofRegistration.
Display of
nationality andRegistration
Mark.
Use of Sate
Marks and CivilAir Ensign.
29 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
CHAPTER V
AIRWORTHINESS  AND EQUIPMENT OF AIRCRAFT
48.(1) No person or body of persons shall import,
design, manufacture, assemble, modify, repair, overhaul,or maintain or attempt to import, design, manufacture,assemble, modify, repair, overhaul or maintain any aircraftor aircraft engines, propellers, appliances and components,except under the authority of a permit issued by the DirectorGeneral which may be obtained on application made in thatbehalf in the prescribed form to the Director General and onthe payment of a prescribed fee.
(2) The Director General shall, on being satisfied as to
the requirements, adequacy and suitability of the equipment,facilities and material proposed to be used for the type,design, manufacture, assemble, modification, repair,overhaul and maintenance and the competency of thoseengaged in the work giving instructions therein, issue apermit to an applicant to import, design, manufacture,assemble, modify, repair, overhaul and attend to themaintenance of any aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers,appliances or components.
(3) A permit issued under subsection (2) shall be subject
to such conditions as may be specified by the DirectorGeneral. It shall be duty of the person or body of persons asthe case may be, to whom such permit is issued, to complywith such conditions.
49.(1) Any person or body of persons who acts in
violation of the requirements of section 48 shall be guiltyof an offence under this Act.
(2) Where the Director General has reasonable cause to
believe that an offence under this section is beingcommitted, he or any other officer authorized in writing inthat behalf, may enter the premises where the offence isProhibition onmanufacture,assemble &c., ofaircraft without apermit.
Effect of
violating theprovisions ofsection 48.
30 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
believed to have been committed and seize and take into
custody any aircraft, part of any aircraft or any design, as the
case may be, together with all tools and equipment being
used for the commission of such offence.
(3) Anything seized under subsection (2) shall be kept in
the custody of the Director General and upon conviction ofthe accused of the offence, the 
Court shall make an appropriate
order for their forfeiture or destruction in such manner as the
court shall direct.
(4) In the event of the accused being acquitted of the
offence, the court shall order the immediate release ofanything seized under subsection (2), and the Director
General shall be exempt from liability for any damage caused
to anything so seized while it was in his custody, unless it isproved that such damage was caused due to his negligence.
(5) The Director General or any officer authorized in
writing in that behalf by the Director General under
subsection (2), shall for the purposes of this section, bedeemed to be “peace officers” within the meaning and forthe purposes of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15of 1979.
50.No aircraft shall fly or attempt to fly in or over the
territory of Sri Lanka, unless there is in force in respectthereof a Certificate of Airworthiness, duly issued or renderedvalid by the appropriate authority of the country in whichsuch aircraft is registered or where applicable, a Certificateissued or rendered valid by the appropriate authority of the
State of the operator and provided that the conditions, if
any, subject to which such Certificate was issued or renderedvalid, are duly complied with and the requirements underwhich such Certificate was issued or rendered valid are equalto or above the minimum standards which may be establishedfrom time to time under the Convention.
51.(1) A Certificate of Airworthiness in respect of any
aircraft registered in Sri Lanka shall be issued by the DirectorGeneral in accordance with the prescribed requirements.Prohibition
against flyingoverSri Lankawithout aCertificate ofAirworthiness.
Issue of
Certificates ofAirworthiness.
31 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(2) The Director General may notwithstanding the
provisions of subsection (1), permit an aircraft to be flownwithin the territory of Sri Lanka without a Certificate of
Airworthiness for the purpose of experiment or test or any
other purpose, provided that in such instance the aircraftmay not be flown otherwise than in accordance with suchconditions or limitations as are specified by the DirectorGeneral.
(3) A Certificate of Airworthiness issued under subsection
(1) shall be valid for such period as shall be specified in suchCertificate, which period shall not in any event exceed oneyear from the date of issue of such Certificate. A Certificateso issued may be renewed at the end of its period of validity,
on application being made in that behalf to the Director
General.
(4) Where any defect is found in any aircraft registered in
Sri Lanka, which renders the aircraft unsafe for flight, the
Director General may suspend the Certificate of
Airworthiness until such time as the defect is corrected. TheDirector General shall cancel the Certificate of Airworthinesswhere an aircraft is deemed permanently not airworthy.Where a Certificate is cancelled, it shall be the duty of the
holder of such Certificate to immediately hand over the
Certificate to the Director-General.
52.The Director General shall have the power to validate
for such period not exceeding three months, as may bedetermined by the Director General, a Certificate of
Airworthiness issued by any other country on application
made in that behalf by the owner or operator of such aircraft.
CHAPTER VI
S
EARCH AND RESCUE OPERATIONS  AND INVESTIGATION  INTO
ACCIDENTS  AND INCIDENTS
53.The procedures to be followed in the provision and
co-ordination of necessary measures of assistance to be given
to an aircraft in distress shall be as determined by theValidation of
Certificates ofAirworthiness.
Assistance to
aircrafts indistress.
32 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
Requisitioning of
aircrafts andcalling out offlight crew forair search andrescueoperations.Authority by rules made in that behalf. Such rules shall be
based on the applicable SARPS relating to the same.
54.(1) The Minister or any person authorized in that
behalf by the Minister may at any time, in order to facilitateany air search or rescue operations, requisition any civil
aircraft from its owner or operator, as the case may be, and
also call out for services of any person whose services maybecome essential to assist in such air search or rescueoperations.
(2) Compensation in respect of requisition of any aircraft
and payment to persons whose services were called out for
under subsection (1), shall be payable at such rate as may bedetermined by the Minister, in consultation with the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance.
(3) Where any air search and rescue operations are
undertaken by the State in connection with any occurrencewhich was caused by the negligent or other unlawful act oromission of any person, the Minister may recover from suchperson the whole or any portion of the expenses incurred bythe State in connection with such operations,
notwithstanding the fact that the aircraft concerned is a
foreign aircraft and the services in question were renderedelsewhere than within the territory of the Republic ofSri Lanka.
(4) Any person who without lawful reason refuses or fails
to comply with any order or instruction made or given under
subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence.
55.(1) The Authority shall in accordance with such
regulations as may be prescribed, institute an investigationinto any accident or incident arising out of or in the course
of air navigation, where such accident or incident had
occurred within the territory of Sri Lanka or is in respect of
Aircraft accident
or incidentinvestigations.
33 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
an aircraft registered in Sri Lanka or an aircraft operated by
an operator of Sri Lanka, for the purpose of :—
(a) determining the facts, conditions and circumstances
relating to the accident or incident and the probable
cause thereof; and
(b) ensuring the prevention of any such similar
accidents or incidents from occurring in the future,
and not for the purpse of apportioning blame orliability.
(2) The Minister shall in prescribing regulations for
purpose of subsection (1), comply with the applicable SARPSrelating to investigations into aircraft accidents or incidents,as the case may be.
56.(1) For the purpose of carrying out an investigation
under section 55, the Authority may appoint an AircraftAccident Investigation Board with regard to each suchaircraft accident or incident, as the case may be (hereinafterin this Chapter referred to as the “Board”), consisting of
such number of persons as may be determined by the
Authority, one of whom shall act as its Chief Investigator.The Authority however shall not appoint as a member ofany Board, a member of the staff of the Authority or anyperson who has any connection with the accident or incidentwhich such Board is required to investigate.
(2) The Authority shall, when appointing a Board under
subsection (1), stipulate the terms and conditions to be
complied with by the members of the Board in conducting
an investigation.
(3) The functions of the Board appointed under subsection
(1) shall cease with the submission to the Authority of thefinal report of the Board on such accident or incident whichit was appointed to investigate.
(4) The Authority may arrange for representation to be
made at an investigation carried out in respect of any aircraftregistered in Sri Lanka, by a State in which such accident or
incident occurred.Appointment of
Aircraft AccidentInvestigationBoard.
34 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
57.(1) Every member of the Board shall before entering
upon his duties, sign a declaration pledging himself or herselfto observe strict secrecy in respect all information disclosedat the investigation and shall by such declaration, pledgehimself or  herself, not to divulge any such informationexcept:—
(a) when required to do so by a court of law;
(b) in the performance of his or her duties as a member
of the Board; or
(c) in order to comply with any provision of this Act or
any regulation or rule made thereunder.
(2) All investigations to be carried out by the Board, shall
be conducted in camera.
58.(1) The Board in the course of an investigation into
an accident or incident shall have the power to:—
(a) summon under its Chief Investigator’s hand and
call before it and examine all such persons whom itconsiders necessary;
(b) require any person summoned to answer any
question or furnish any information or produce anybooks, papers, documents or articles which theBoard may consider relevant and to retain any suchbooks, papers, documents and articles, until thecompletion of the investigation;
(c) take statements from all such persons as it considers
necessary and to require any such person to makeand sign a declaration relating to the truth of thestatement made by him;
(d) have unhampered and unrestricted access to the
aircraft wreckage, flight recorders, air traffic records,the place where the accident occurred  and to anyother relevant material  and for that purpose toDeclaration ofSecrecy.
Power to
summon andexaminewitnesses andproductions.
35 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
require the aircraft concerned or any part of the
equipment thereof to be preserved unaltered, toenable a detailed investigation to be made withoutdelay;
(e) examine, remove, test, take measures for the
preservation of and otherwise deal with the aircraftor any part thereof or anything contained therein ;
(f) enter and inspect any place or building where it
appears to be requisite for the purposes of theinvestigation; and
(g) take all measures necessary for the preservation of
evidence.
(2) An investigation instituted by the Authority under
section 55 shall in no way be considered as being inderogation of any power which under any other law mayattach to any police, judicial or other investigation, providedthat the Board shall have priority in the examination of therelevant evidence.
(3) It shall be an offence for any unauthorized person to
remove or keep in his custody any part of an aircraft involvedin an accident or incident or any documents or other articlesthereof, to tamper with other evidence or to remove or keepin his or her custody any belongings of passengers ormembers of the crew or cargo carried in that aircraft.
(4) Where any accident has occurred within the territory
of Sri Lanka to an aircraft registered in a State Party to theConvention and any person dies or suffers any serious injuryor the aircraft suffers substantial damage, the Authority shallauthorize the accredited representative of the State ofRegistry or where applicable, the State of the operator, theState of design of the aircraft, the State of the manufacture ofthe aircraft, the States of which the victims are nationals andany other State considered appropriate by the Authority, toparticipate in the investigation.
36 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (4), the
Authority may in consultation with the Minister, delegate
the actual performance of the investigation to a dulyauthorized investigator or investigators of the State wheresuch aircraft is registered, or, if applicable, the State of theOperator or of any other State considered as appropriate bythe Authority, who shall perform such function in accordance
with the provisions of this Chapter of this Act and any
regulations or rules made thereunder and under thesupervision of the Authority. In the event of such delegationthe Authority shall, so far as it is able, facilitate suchinvestigations.
(6)  No person summoned as a witness at an investigation
shall:—
(a) disobey a summons issued by the Board ;
(b) refuse to be sworn in or to make an affirmation as a
witness ;
(c) fail to answer any question which he or she is
lawfully required to answer ; or
(d) refuse or fail to produce any documents or part or
component of an aircraft which he or she is lawfullyrequired to produce.
(7) It shall be an offence to obstruct or impede the Board
or any person acting under the authority of the Board, in the
exercise or performence of any powers or duties under this
Chapter.
59.(1)  Where any accident occurs outside the territory
of Sri Lanka to any aircraft registered in Sri Lanka and anyperson dies or suffers serious injury or the aircraft suffers
substantial damage, the Authority shall authorize an
accredited representative to participate in any investigationor inquiry that may be conducted by the country in whichthe accident occurred or may authorize the Board to conductan investigation into any matter connected with such
accident.
Accidents
outsideSri Lanka.
37 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(2) Where any accident occurs outside the territory of
Sri Lanka to any aircraft registered in Sri Lanka, and anyperson dies or suffers serious injury or the aircraft sufferssubstantial damage, the Director General shall furnish anycountry which conducts an investigation or inquiry outsidethe territory of Sri Lanka, with all information in hispossession that may be relevant to the conduct of suchinvestigation.
60.(1) On the conclusion of an investigation, the Board
shall prepare a report in such manner as shall be prescribed,stating the circumstances of the case and the conclusion asto the probable cause or causes of the accident or incident,including any observations and recommendations which itthinks fit to make with a view to the preservation of life and
the avoidance of similar occurrences in the future. The report
shall be submitted to the Authority and the Authority may
cause the whole or any part of such report to be published insuch manner as it thinks fit.
(2)  The Authority shall send with the minimum delay,
the draft copy of the final report to such persons and
organizations, as may be prescribed.
(3) At the time of the submission of the report to the
Authority, the Board shall also provide the Authority with
any safety information that came to its knowledge duringthe conduct of the investigation, the confidentiality of which
the Board considers should be maintained and the Authority
upon receipt of any such safety information, shall recordand preserve the same in accordance with the State Safety
Programme established under section 116 of this Act.
61.The Authority or the Board shall not make the
following records available to any person for any purpose,
other than for any future investigation relating to an accidentor incident:—
(a) all statements recorded by the Board in the course
of its investigation ;
Authority not to
make availablecertain records.Board to prepare
a report.
38 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(b) all communications between persons involved in
the accident or incident ;
(c) medical or personal information regarding persons
involved in the accident or incident;
(d) cockpit voice recordings, flight data recordings,
recordings from the air traffic control units andtranscripts from such recordings ;
(e) opinions expressed on the analysis of information,
including flight recorder information; and
(f) any records not directly related to the analysis of
the accident or incident investigated.
62.The members of the Board appointed under section
56 shall, so long as they are acting as such members, bedeemed to be public servants within the meaning of the
Penal Code.
63.(1) Notwithstanding the submission of a report under
section 60, where subsequent to the completion of theinvestigation, certain new evidence pertaining to the
accident or the incident which was investigated has been
discovered, which in the opinion of the Authority wouldhave had a significant impact or bearing on the outcome ofthe investigation that was concluded, the Authority shallorder for such investigation to be re-opened.
(2) Where the Authority order the re-opening of an
investigation under subsection (1), the Authority may, at itsdiscretion order such investigation to be carried out, eitherby the same Board which conducted the initial investigationor appoint a new Board under section 56 to conduct thesame.
(3) The provision of this Chapter of this Act relating to
the conduct of an investigation into any accident or incident,shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in regard to the conduct
of any re-opened investigation under subsection (1).Members of the
Board deemedto be publicservants.
Re-opening of
an investigation.
39 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
64. The Director-General shall on the basis of the
findings of an investigation, whether interim or final, take
immediate remedial steps and corrective action which he
considers necessary in the interest of aviation safety,regularity or efficiency or to prevent similar accidents or
incidents happening in the future.
65.For the purposes of this Chapter of this Act:—
“accident” means an occurrence associated with the
operation of an aircraft which in the case of a mannedaircraft, takes place between the time any person
boards the aircraft with the intention of flight, until
such time as all such persons have disembarked or
in the case of an unmanned aircraft, takes placebetween the time the aircraft is ready to move with
the purpose of flight until such time it comes to rest
at the end of the flight and the primary propulsion
system is shut down, and in which:—
(a) a person is fatally or  otherwise seriously
injured, as a result of being in the aircraft or
having direct contact with any part of theaircraft including any part which has become
detached from the aircraft or being exposed
directly to jet blast, as the case may be;
(b) the aircraft sustains damage or structural
failure which adversely affects its structuralstrength, performance or flight characteristics
of the aircraft and would under normal
circumstances require a major repair orreplacement of the affected components; or
(c) the aircraft is missing or is completely
inaccessible;Director-General
to take remedialsteps.
Interpretation.
40 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
“accredited representative”  means a person
designated by a State to represent such State, forthe purpose of participating in an investigationconducted by a Board appointed under section 56of this Act; and
“incident”  means an occurrence associated with the
operation of an aircraft other than an accident,which affects or could affect the safety of suchoperation.
CHAPTER VII
A
VIATION PERSONNEL AND TRAINING INSTITUTIONS
66.(1) For purpose of ensuring the security and safety
of civil aviation activities, the Minister shall in compliancewith the international obligations of Sri Lanka under theConvention, prescribe by regulations the procedure to befollowed for the issue of licences, ratings, certificates ofcompetency or permits that should be conferred upon allpersonnel or institutions involved in or connected with thecarrying on of prescribed civil aviation activities.
(2) Regulations made under subsection (1) shall specify
the activities for which a licence, rating, certificate ofcompetency or permit should be obtained, the qualificationsand other requirements that should be satisfied, applicationprocedure, terms and conditions to be complied with, fees tobe paid, privileges to be granted to the holder of any suchlicence, rating, certificate of competency or permit, groundsfor amendment, suspension and revocation of such licence,rating, certificate of competency or permit and for theirrenewal.
(3) No person who is required by regulations made under
subsection (1) to obtain a licence, rating, certificate of
competency or permit for the purpose of engaging in any
civil aviation activity as specified therein, shall engage inRegulations to
be made forobtaininglicences etc. bypersonnel.
41 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
such activity without obtaining an appropriate licence,
rating, certificate of competency or permit, as the case may
be, for the same.
(4) A person shall not engage any other person in any
activity which requires a licence, rating, certificate of
competency or permit under this Chapter of this Act, unless
the person so engaging is satisfied beyond any doubt, that
the person being engaged holds a valid licence, rating,
certificate of competency or permit, as the case may be.
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2),
regulations made under subsection (1) may also provide for
the validation of a licence, rating, certificate of competency
or permit issued by a State Party to the Convention, provided
that the requirements under which such licence, rating,
certificate of competency or permit was issued by such
State Party to the Convention, are equal to or higher
than the requirements specified in the regulations prescribed
for the implementation of Standards for the issue of such
licence, rating, certificate of competency or permit, as the
case may be.
67.Every licence, rating, certificate of competency, and
permit referred to in section 66, shall be issued by the
Director General or on his behalf by any other person
specifically authorized in writing by him and the Director
General or such other person acting on his behalf shall have
the power to amend, suspend or revoke any such licence,
rating, certificate of competency or permit issued, as the
case may be, for any reason as may be prescribed under that
section.
68.(1) No person who holds a licence, rating, certificate
of competency or permit issued by the Director General shall
perform the activities for which such licence, rating,
certificate of competency or permit has been issued, if he
becomes aware of an illness or other physical or mental
impairment suffered by him, including fatigue, that might
jeopardize the safe performance of his duties.The issue,
suspension andrevocation of alicence, rating,certificates ofcompetency orpermit.
Physical or
mentalimpairment.
42 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(2) Where an operator becomes aware of any physical or
mental impairment including fatigue being suffered by anyemployee of such operator, which is likely to jeopardize thesafe performance of his duties, it shall be the duty of suchoperator to forthwith take all necessary measures to preventsuch employee from continuing to carry on such duties.
(3) A contravention by a person of the provisions of
subsections (1) or (2) of this section shall be an offenceunder this Act and be punishable with a fine not exceedingthe equivalent in Sri Lanka rupees of twenty-five thousandSDR and shall in addition to such punishment, be liable tohave any licence, rating, certificate of competency or permitissued to such person under this Chapter of this Act, to becancelled.
(4) The Director-General shall have the power to issue
directives concerning limitation on duty periods and restperiods applicable to a holder of any licence, rating,certificate of competency or permit issued under this Chapterof this Act, in order to guard against an onset of fatigue andit shall be the duty of the holder of such licence, rating,certificate of competency or permit to comply with suchdirectives. Any employer of the holder of any licence, rating,certificate of competency or permit who prevents such holderfrom complying with any directives so issued, shall be guiltyof an offence.
(5) Wherever the Director General deems it expedient or
necessary, he shall have the power to require any personwho holds any licence, rating, certificate of competency orpermit issued under this Chapter of this Act, to under-go amedical check-up at any time and it shall be the duty of suchperson to comply with such requirement. A refusal to complyshall be deemed to be an offence under this Act and theDirector-General shall have the power, in addition to anypunishment that may be imposed for such offence by a court,to cancel any licence, rating certificate of competency orpermit issued to such person by the Director General.
43 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
69.(1) The Director General shall have the authority to
issue a licence or permit, as the case may be, to any person orinstitution to provide such training courses in respect ofactivities prescribed under section 66 for which a certificateof competency or a licence or permit is required, where he issatisfied as to the adequacy of the course content, thesuitability of the training equipment and facilities and thecompetency of the instructors.
(2) The qualification of instructors to be employed, the
nature of the equipment and other facilities that should beavailable in order to be qualified to be issued with a licenceor permit under subsection (1) to provide training coursesand the fees payable for the issue, renewal and amendmentof such licence or permit, shall be as prescribed.
(3) A licence or permit under subsection (1) shall be issued
for a period not exceeding one year, which may thereafter berenewed in each case for a further period not exceeding oneyear. The Director General may suspend or revoke any licenceor permit issued, for any one or more reasons as may beprescribed.
CHAPTER VIII
A
IRCRAFT OPERATION
70. (1) No aircraft registered in Sri Lanka shall fly within
or outside the territory of Sri Lanka, unless it carries onboard a valid Certificate of Registration and a Certificate ofAirworthiness issued under section 42 and section 51respectively, of this Act, such minimum equipment andoperating crew and any other documents required to becarried thereon as prescribed under this Act.
(2) No aircraft other than an aircraft registered in
Sri Lanka, shall  fly within the territory of Sri Lanka,  unlessit carries on board a valid licence or certificate issued onregistration of  that aircraft, minimum equipment andAviationTrainingInstitutions.
Documents,
equipment,number anddescription ofthe operatingcrew.
44 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
operating crew and any other documents required to be
carried therein by the law of the State in which such aircraftis registered or the State of the operator, or in the absence ofboth, as required by Article 29 of the Convention.
(3) The members of the operating crew of every aircraft
referred to in this section shall hold the prescribed certificatesof competency, licences, rating or authority issued orrendered valid by the State in which such aircraft is registeredor where applicable by the State of the operator.
(4) The Minister shall prescribe the types of log books
required to be maintained and the applicable requirementsrelating to their maintenance, in respect of aircraft, engines,propellers, equipment or personnel involved in themaintenance and operations of aircraft.
71.  (1) The Minister shall in compliance with the relevant
SARPS, prescribe the Rules of the Air, the manner in whichan aircraft may be moved or flown, the lights and other signalsto be shown or made by an aircraft or persons, the lightingand marking of Aerodromes and any other provisions forsecuring the safety of an aircraft in flight and in movementand safety of person and property on land or water.
(2) It shall be the duty of every Pilot-in-Command of an
aircraft to comply with the Rules of the Air prescribed by theMinister under subsection (1).
(3) Every aircraft registered in Sri Lanka on an
international flight, wheresoever such aircraft may be, shallobserve the Rules of the Air that are in force in that countryand while flying over the high seas or areas of undeterminedsovereignty, the Rules of the Air to be observed shall bethose established under the Convention.
(4) A Pilot-in-Command of an aircraft registered in
Sri Lanka who fails to observe the Rules of the Air as requiredunder subsection (2) and (3) of this section, shall, in additionRules of the Air.
45 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
to any penalty that may be imposed for such violation, be
also liable to have the licence issued to him by the DirectorGeneral under section 67 suspended or cancelled, as thecase may be.
72.(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of section
71, a Pilot-in-Command shall—
(a) be responsible for the safe operation of the aircraft
in flight, safety and well being of all the passengersand crew and safety of the cargo being carried;
(b) have the final authority to control the aircraft while
in command and maintain discipline among allpersons on board; and
(c) subject to the provisions of subsection (2), be
responsible for compliance with all relevantrequirements imposed under this Act, anyregulations or rules made thereunder and theimplementing standards relating to aircraftoperations.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), a
Pilot-in-Command may in an emergency, deviate fromcomplying with any provisions of this Act or any regulationsor rules made thereunder or any implementing standardsrelating to aircraft operations, where he is satisfied that:—
(a) the emergency involves a danger to life or property;
(b)  the deviation is necessary in order to deal with the
emergency situation;
(c)  there are no reasonable means available for
alleviating or avoiding the emergency; and
(d)  the degree of danger involved in complying with
the requirements of this Act or any regulations orActions by aPilot-in-Command in anemergency.
46 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
rules made thereunder or any implementing
standards relating to air craft operations, is
manifestly greater in degree than the danger
involved in deviating from them.
(3) Where a Pilot-in-Command in an emergency deviates
from any requirements under subsection (2), he shall:—
(a)  forthwith notify the relevant air traffic control of
such deviation; and
(b)  notify the Director General as soon as practicable
of such deviation and where required by the
Director-General, submit a written report relating
to his actions.
(4) In the event of any national emergency, calamity,
crisis or disaster and for the sole purpose of rescuing lives or
property or providing relief to the parties affected or is likely
to be affected from such an event, the Director General shall
in so far as the same is necessary for dealing with such
emergency, calamity, crisis or disaster, have the power to
suspend temporarily the application of one or more
requirements imposed by of this Act or any regulations, rules
or implementing standard made thereunder or any directives
issued thereunder. The Director General shall in respect of
each such occasion that any such temporary suspension has
been effected, submit a written report to the Minister which
shall contain a detailed account of the suspension in question.
The Minister shall cause such report to be tabled in
Parliament.
73.(1)  No aircraft registered in Sri Lanka or any aircraft
used by an operator licensed under this Act shall, on the
basis of any lease, charter, interchange or similar
arrangement, be operated other than under and in accordance
with the terms of an Air Operator Certificate issued by the
Director  General to the owner or operator of such aircraft.Air Operator
Certificate.
47 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(2) Commercial air transport operations into or out of
Sri Lanka performed by a foreign air operator, shall be inaccordance with the terms of a Foreign Air OperatorCertificate issued by the Director General to such foreign airoperator. In issuing such a Certificate, the Director Generalshall ensure that such foreign air operator has been issuedwith a valid Air Operator Certificate or as equivalent in thecountry in which such foreign operator is carrying onbusiness and further that adequate provision has been madeby the authority who issued such Air Operator Certificate, toensure that the foreign air operator conforms to and complieswith the standards, practices and procedures set out in theConvention and the Annexes to the Convention.
(3) An Air Operator Certificate or a Foreign Air Operator
Certificate referred to in subsection (1) or (2), shall not beissued by the Director General, where an operator or ownerof an aircraft or a foreign air operator, as the case may be,who applies for an Air Operator Certificate or a Foreign AirOperator Certificate, as the case may be, poses or is likely topose a threat to the national security of Sri Lanka or tointernational civil aviation.
(4) The Director General shall on the payment of a
prescribed fee, process an application made under subsection(1) or subsection (2), as the case may be, and shall for thatpurpose conduct such investigation as he may considernecessary, in accordance with such regulations as may beprescribed, giving effect to the applicable standards andany associated requirements.
(5) Every Air Operator Certificate and Foreign Air
Operator Certificate issued under this section, shall be subjectto the  operations specifications specified in the Certificateissued and to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed.It shall be the obligation of the holder of such Certificate toensure that operations are carried out in strict conformitywith the operations specifications specified and such termsand conditions prescribed, and that such operations do not
48 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
breach any requirements imposed under the provisions of
this Act or any regulations, rules, implementing standards
or directives issued thereunder or any obligations imposed
upon Sri Lanka under any agreement entered into with any
other country.
(6) An Air Operator Certificate or a Foreign Air Operator
Certificate shall be valid for a period not exceeding one
year from the date of its issue and may be renewed for a
further period not exceeding one year in each case, provided
that the requirements imposed for the holding such Certificate
is maintained to the satisfaction of the Director General.
(7) An operation of an aircraft, without a valid Air
Operator Certificate or a foreign Air Operator Certificate, as
the case may be, issued under this section or in contravention
of any terms or conditions of any such Certificate issued,
shall be subject to a fine not exceeding the equivalent in Sri
Lanka Rupees of ten thousand SDR or per each day of the
infraction.
74.No person shall be granted approval by the Director
General for the importation of an aircraft, unless:—
(a) the Director General is satisfied that the aircraft to
be imported shall be operated under an Air Operator
Certificate issued under section 73 of this Act; and
(b) the person concerned complies with such
requirements as may be prescribed for that purpose.
75.(1) Every holder of an Air Operator Certificate or a
Foreign Air Operator Certificate, as the case may be,
operating within Sri Lanka or internationally, to, from or
through Sri Lanka, shall keep in force at all times a liability
insurance adequately covering his liability for death or
bodily injury to passengers which may be caused by an
accident and for the loss of or damage to baggage, cargo or
mail, due to any event during the period of carriage and for
the delay in the carriage of passengers, baggage, cargo orLiability
insurance.Importation of
aircraft.
49 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
mail. Such person shall also be required to have a valid and
adequate insurance policy covering his liability for damage
that may be caused by the aircraft to third parties, on the
surface or in the air.
(2) In determining the adequacy of the liability insurance
cover referred to in subsection (1), a holder of an AirOperator Certificate or a Foreign Air Operator Certificate, as
the case  may be, shall take into consideration whether:—
(a) the insurance provides a comprehensive cover for
actual and potential obligation of the person
insured, in respect of all of his proposed activities;
(b) the insurer is authorized to effect such insurance
under the laws of the country where the aircraft isregistered or the country where the insurer has hisresidence or the principal place of business and
whose financial responsibility has been verified;
and
(c) the insurance provides comprehensive cover for
obligations that may arise due to death, bodilyinjury or damage to property caused by the aircraft
to third parties on surface or in the air.
(3) The Director General shall determine the minimum
limits of insurance cover that is required to be obtained,
depending on the nature and scope of operations beingcarried on by the holder of the relevant Certificate.
76.(1) The Director General may where he considers it
appropriate and upon a request made in that behalf by a
holder of a Certificate and on the payment of the prescribed
fee, amend an Air Operator Certificate or a Foreign AirOperator Certificate, as the case may be, issued to such holder,
varying the privileges or limitations granted under such
Certificate.Amendment,
suspension and
revocation of
Air Operator
Certificates.
50 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(2)The Director General shall have the power to suspend
or revoke at anytime, any Air Operator Certificate or aForeign Air Operator Certificate, as the case may be, issuedby him if the conditions under which the Certificate wasissued changes or if the holder fails to comply with theoperations specifications specified in the Certificate issued,any conditions prescribed under subsection (5) of section73, the requirements imposed by sections 75 or any otherrequirements imposed under the provisions of this Act orany regulations, rules, implementing standards or directives,made or issued thereunder.
77.(1) An aircraft which is registered in a State party to
the Convention other than Sri Lanka, may be operated inSri Lanka under an agreement for the lease, charter orinterchange of the aircraft or any other similar arrangement,provided that an agreement has been reached with regard tothe transfer of functions and duties relating to safety over-sight and its operations, between the aeronautical authorityof the State with which such aircraft is registered and theDirector General pursuant to Article 83 bis to the
Convention, and the application of the provisions of thisAct or any regulations or rules made thereunder shall be tothe extent specified in such agreement.
(2) The Director General may, where he considers it
feasible and subject to the approval of the Authority, agreewith the aviation authorities of any other State Party to theConvention, for the transfer of the functions and dutiesrelating to safety oversight of an aircraft registered inSri Lanka, which is to be operated by an operator of suchother State Party, pursuant to an agreement for the lease,charter or interchange of the aircraft or any other similararrangement and the nature and scope of the duties andfunctions so transferred to such other State Party, shall be tothe extent mentioned in such agreement.
(3) The Director General may for a period not exceeding
three months and subject to such conditions as may beAircraftoperated underan agreementfor lease, charteror interchangeof aircraft.
51 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
prescribed, waive the requirement imposed under subsection
(1) in respect of an operator who already holds a valid AirOperator Certificate, provided that the proposed arrangementin the opinion of the Director General, meets the requirementsin respect of safety.
78.(1) For the purpose of ensuring the safety of air
navigation and of persons traveling  on board an aircraft, the
Minister shall in compliance with the applicable SARPS,prescribe the requirements to be satisfied for classificationspacking, labeling and marking, handling and carriage ofdangerous goods by air and the fees payable for the grant ofa permit for handling or transporting such dangerous goodsby air.
(2) The Director General shall by directives issued in that
behalf, specify the procedure that should be adhered to inrespect of classification, packing, labeling and marking,handling and carriage of dangerous goods permitted to becarried on board an aircraft, emergency procedures,investigation into accidents or incidents involvingdangerous goods and the training required for personsinvolved in handling such consignments of dangerousgoods. The Director General shall also have the power fromtime to time, to issue such implementing instructions asmay become necessary for the purpose of giving effect toany directives issued by him under this subsection or anyrequirements prescribed under this section.
(3) Munitions or any other implements of war shall
not be carried by any aircraft within the territory of Sri Lankaor by any aircraft registered in Sri Lanka, except on theauthority of a permit issued by the Director General for thatpurpose.
(4) Any person who fails to comply with the requirements
imposed by this section or any regulations, directives orimplementing instructions issued thereunder, shall be guiltyof an offence under this Act and shall on conviction beCarriage ofdangerousgoods.
52 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
liable to a fine the equivalent in Sri Lanka Rupees of twenty
five thousand SDR or to imprisonment not exceeding twoyears or to both such fine and imprisonment.
79.(1) The Authority with the assistance of the Service
Provider appointed for the provision of Air Traffic Servicesshall, in accordance with the applicable SARPS and theRegional Air Navigation Plan, determine and publish theair routes and air navigation procedures to be followed bycivil aircraft for their entry, exit, transit or movements withinthe Sri Lanka Flight Information Region.
(2) The Authority shall amend the air routes determined
under subsection (1) whenever it becomes necessary, so asto keep them up to date with any changes that may havebeen made to the applicable SARPS or to the design of theRegional Air Navigation Plan, as the case may be.
80.An aircraft capable of being flown without a pilot
shall not be operated within the territory of Sri Lanka, exceptunder the authority and in accordance with the terms andconditions of a special permit issued by the Director Generalfor that purpose and on the payment of the prescribed fee.
81.(1) No aircraft shall be acrobatically flown nor shall
any exhibition, competition, formation flying or air showbe performed within the territory of Sri Lanka, except underthe authority of a special permit issued by the DirectorGeneral for that purpose and on the payment of the prescribedfee.
(2) The Director General may issue a permit referred to in
subsection (1), on being satisfied that the flight safety in theairspace and the safety of the general public and property,are not endangered by activities in respect of which suchpermit is to be issued and may further require the organizersof any such exhibition, competition, formation flying or airshow, to provide proof of adequate public liability insurancefor any damage that may be caused.Determining airroutes.
Pilotless
aircrafts.
Acrobatic
flying, flightexhibitions,competitionsand air shows.
53 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
82.(1) Where an aircraft is flown in such a manner as to
cause unnecessary danger to any person or property on landor water—
(a) the Pilot-in-Command and the operator of the
aircraft ; or
(b) where there is no operator, the Pilot-in-Command
and the owner of the aircraft,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and on conviction
be liable to a fine the equivalent in Sri Lanka Rupees  of
twenty five thousand SDR or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding two years, or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) An operator or owner, as the case may be, may where
such operator or owner is able to prove to the satisfaction ofthe court that such aircraft was flown in the manner referredto in subsection (1) without its knowledge or consent, beexempt from liability for an offence under that subsection.
(3) The provisions of this section shall be in addition to
and not in substitution of any general safety or otherprovisions of this Act or any regulations, rules orimplementing standards that may be made or issued underthis Act.
83.Every person who on board an aircraft registered in
Sri Lanka, while on flight, whether within or outside theterritory of Sri Lanka or a foreign aircraft while on flightwithin the territory of Sri Lanka—
(a) assault, intimidate, threaten or commit any similar
act against a crew member ;
(b) refuse to follow a lawful instruction given by the
Pilot-in-Command or on his behalf by a crewmember, relating to any matter which affects thesafety or security of the aircraft or its passengers ;Dangerous flightoperations
Offences
committed onboard anaircraft.
54 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(c)  assaults, intimidate or threatens any passenger ;
(d) engage in smoking in any part or section of the
aircraft ;
(e) intentionally causes damage or destruction to the
aircraft or any part thereof ;
(f) engage in any indecent behavior ;
(g) tampers with a smoke detector or any other safety
device installed on board the aircraft ;
(h) operates any portable electronic device when such
act is prohibited under the law applicable to thataircraft ; or
(i) removes without the approval of the Pilot-in-
Command, any safety or emergency equipment,device or document or any other equipment ordevice found in the aircraft,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and on conviction
be liable to a fine equivalent in Sri Lanka Rupees of twenty-five thousand SDR or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
CHAPTER IX
C
OMMERCIAL  AIR TRANSPORTATION
84.(1) No person shall engage in domestic or
international commercial air transportation based inSri Lanka, except in accordance with an Airline Licenceissued by the Authority under section 87 in the formprescribed for that purpose.
(2) No foreign air operator shall engage in any commercial
air transportation to or from Sri Lanka, except in accordancewith a Foreign Airline Licence issued by the Authority undersection 89, in the form prescribed for that purpose.Airline Licenceand ForeignAirline Licence.
55 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
85.(1) No aerial work shall be carried on within the
territory of Sri Lanka, except in accordance with a licence
issued for that purpose by the Authority in the prescribed
manner.
(2) Any person who holds an appropriate Air Operator
Certificate and possess such qualifications as determined by
the Authority by rules made in that behalf, shall be eligible
to apply for a licence under subsection (1) to engage in aerial
work.
86.An Airline Licence or a Foreign Airline Licence
issued under this Act shall specify the nature and scope of
the activities that the air operator is authorized to engage in
commercial air transportation and shall contain the
privileges, conditions and limitations applicable to the
service to be rendered.
87.(1) The following shall be eligible to obtain an
Airline Licence for domestic or international commercial air
transportation based in Sri Lanka:—
(a) a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) a registered body of persons having its principal
place of business in Sri Lanka and in which at least
fifty-one per centum of the share capital is owned
by citizens of Sri Lanka ; or
(c) any person or body of persons approved by the
Cabinet of Ministers.
(2) The Authority may issue an Airline Licence on
application made in that behalf by any person referred to in
subsection (1) and on being satisfied that the applicant
has complied with the requirements determined under
subsection (3).
(3) The Authority shall determine by rules made in that
behalf, the information necessary to be submitted by a personPrivileges,
conditions andlimitationsattached.
An Airline
Licence fordomestic orinternationalcommercial airtransportation.Aerial work.
56 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
applying for an Airline Licence, in order to prove compliance
with the following requirements :—
(a) that the applicant holds a valid Air Operator
Certificate ;
(b) that the proposed domestic commercial air transport
operations are financially secured by actual assets,bank guarantees or other security for a period notless than three years from the proposed launchingof the services ;
(c) that adequate and valid liability insurance cover as
determined on the guidelines referred to insubsection (2) of section 75, is held for any damagethat may arise out of its proposed operations ;
(d) that an effective program drawn in accordance with
the  National Aviation Security Programmeformulated by the Authority under section 17, forprotection against unlawful interference with civilaviation is in place, which has been approved bythe Director General ; and
(e) that the applicant fulfills any other requirements as
may be prescribed for that purpose.
88. (1) The Authority may where it considers it
necessary by Order published in the Gazette and subject to
such terms and conditions as may be specified in such Order,make available to any person to whom an Air Line Licneceis issued, any immovable property which is in the possessionof the Authority, for the purpose of enabling such licenceholder to provide domestic or international commercial airtransportation in Sri Lanka under such licence.
(2) It shall be the duty of the holder of an Airline Licence
to whom any property is made available under subsection(1), to comply with the terms and conditions stipulated in
Immovableproperty to bemade availableto a personissued with anAirline Licence .
57 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
the Order and hold and maintain such immovable property
in good condition.
(3) The holder of an Airline Licence to whom any
immovable  property is made available, shall not—
(a) sell or dispose of any such property; or
(b) except with the prior written approval of the
Authority,:—
(i) effect any alteration in such property or put
up any new constructions in such property;
or
(ii) grant a lease of any such property to any other
person.
89.(1) No Foreign Air Operator shall be issued with a
Foreign Airline Licence, unless such Foreign AirOperator—
(a) has obtained a Foreign Air Operator Certificate from
the Director General ;
(b) has adequate and valid insurance cover as
determined on the guidelines referred to in
subsection (2) of section 75, to cover liability which
may arise from its operations ; and
(c) has in place an effective program drawn in
accordance with the Aviation Security Programmeformulated by the Authority under section 17, for
protection against unlawful interference with civil
aviation.
(2) The Authority may issue a Foreign Air Licence on
application made in that behalf by a Foreign Air OperatorQualifications
for the issue of aForeign AirlineLicence.
58 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
and upon being satisfied that such applicant has complied
with—
(a) the requirements imposed by subsection (1) ; and
(b) any other requirements that may be specified in the
air service agreement that is entered into between
Sri Lanka and the respective aeronautical authority
of the State of the applicant.
90.(1) Where appropriate, the Authority may upon a
request made in that behalf by the holder of an Aerial Work
Licence, an Airline Licence or a Foreign Airline licence, as
the case may be, issued under section 85, 87 or 89 of this
Act, and on the payment of a prescribed fee, amend such
licence.
(2) The Authority may at any time at its own discretion,
where it considers it necessary in the interest of national
security, safety of air navigation or for the purpose of
ensuring fair competition, amend an Aerial Work Licence,
an Airline Licence, or a Foreign Airline Licence, as the case
may be, issued under section 85, 87 or 89 of this Act, by the
incorporation of any additional conditions or limitations to
such licence.
91.The Authority may at any time suspend or revoke
an Aerial Work Licence, an Airline Licence, or a Foreign
Airline Licence, as the case may be, issued under section 85,
87 or 89 of this Act, on any one or more of the following
grounds:—
(a) where the conditions under which the licence was
issued have changed ;
(b) where the licence holder or any aircraft operated by
the licenceholder, fails to comply with any
provisions of this Act or any regulations or rules
made thereunder or any term or condition of the
licence ;Power to amend
a licence issuedunder section85, 87, or 89 ofthis Act.
Power to
suspend orrevoke a licenceissued undersection 85, 87 or89.
59 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(c) where the licence holder fails to conform to or
comply with any term or condition of the relevant
agreement or arrangement;
(d) in the case of the holder of a Foreign Airline Licence,
where the Foreign Air Operator Certificate issued
under section 74 of this Act to such holder, is
revoked ; or
(e) where the Authority is directed to suspend or revoke
such licence by the Minister who is of the opinionthat it is necessary or desirable to do so, for thepurpose of preserving or promoting fair competitionin international air transport services.
92.(1) No person other than such person as shall  be
prescribed for that purpose, shall provide any repair ormaintenance services to any Airline, except under the
authority of a permit issed for the same by the Director
General.
(2) The permit referred to in subsection (1) shall be
obtained on application made to the Director General in theprescribed form, accompanied by the prescribed fee.
(3) The Director General may, on being satisfied with the
technical competency and ability of the applicant to providemaintenance services to Airlines, issue a permit, subject tosuch terms and conditions as may be specified therein.
(4) A permit issued under this section shall be valid for a
period of one year from the date of its issue and may be
renewed at the end of that period on application made in
that behalf and on the  payment of the prescribed renewal
fee.
93.(1) Non-scheduled international air transportation
may be authorized by the Authority by the issue of a permit,upon a written application made in that behalf by an operatorin the manner prescribed, having regard to:—
(a) public interest and in particular to the benefits to
Sri Lanka’s national economy; andMaintenance
services to beprovided onlyon a permitissued byDerectorGeneral.
Non- scheduled
international airtransportation.
60 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(b) any adverse effect such authorization may have on
scheduled international air transportation, between
the points of origin and the destination of suchflight.
(2) A permit issued under subsection (1) shall be subject
to such terms and conditions as shall be specified therein
and be valid for a period not more than one year from the
date of its issue. The Authority may renew a permit uponapplication made in that behalf and on the payment of theprescribed renewal fee.
(3) A permit issued under subsection (1) may be suspended
or cancelled, as the case may be, for the violation of any
term or condition specified in such permit.
94.(1) The Authority may issue to any holder or category
of holders of any licences or permits issued under this Chapter
of this Act, directives, instructions or procedures in relation
to conditions of carriage of passengers, baggage, cargo andmail, and dealing with liability for denied boarding andother issues, for the purpose of ensuring the protection ofpassengers and other users of the aircraft.
(2) It shall be the duty of all persons to whom any directive,
instruction or procedure is issued under subsection (1) tostrictly comply with the same, and any failure to do so shallbe an offence under this Act.
95.Every holder of an Airline Licence or a Foreign
Airline  Licence shall in the manner prescribed, submit to
the Authority for its approval, the proposed flight schedulesin respect of its operations within Sri Lanka or for the arrivalto and departure from Sri Lanka, as the case may be. In thecase of an aircraft calling in Sri Lanka for non-traffic purposesor in the case of over-flight, the relevant information shall
be provided in the manner specified by the Authority.Protection of
passengers and
users of aircraft.
Flight schedules.
61 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
96.To ensure orderly flow of air traffic, the Authority
may issue directives, instructions or procedures for the
allocation of slots to air operators. In issuing directives,
instructions or procedures, preference may be given to
scheduled international air services:
  Provided that the Authority shall endavour to ensure
non-discriminatory consideration of all requests.
97.(1) No person shall carry on the business of air
transportation in Sri Lanka, except under the authority of or
otherwise than in accordance with the terms or conditions,
of an Air Transport Service Licence issued in that behalf by
the Authority.
(2) Any person desiring to obtain a licence under
subsection (1), may submit an application for the same
together with the prescribed fee and the Authority may issue
a licence to such person where it is satisfied that the applicant
has complied with the requirements specified in subsection (3).
(3) The requirements that should be satisfied by a person
for the issue of a licence under this section, shall be the
availability of—
(a) adequate infrastructure facilities and staff
requirements;
(b) adequate financial arrangements necessary for
discharging the actual and potential obligations in
respect of the business activities relating to air
transportation; and
(c) bank guarantees or other security necessary to cover
financial commitments to clients.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph ( c) of
subsection (3), an operator of an aircraft applying for a licence
under subsection (1), shall not be required to furnish a bank
guarantee or other security, as required under that paragraph.Allocation of
slots.
Air Transport
Service Licence.
62 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
98.(1) Every person to whom a licence or a permit is
issued under section 93 or 97, as the case may be, shallmaintain such records as may be determined by the Authority,and furnish to the Authority such returns or information asmay from time to time be required to be furnished by the
Authority.
(2) The Authority may revoke a licnece or a permit issued
under sections 93 or 97, as the case may be, where the
Authority is satisfied that the holder of such licence orpermit:—
(a) has ceased to carry on the business in respect of
which the lincence or permit has been issued;
(b) has obtained the licence or permit contrary to the
provisions of this Act or any regulations or rulesmade thereunder;
(c) where the licence holder or the permit holder is a
company, that any or all of its principal officershave been convicted of an offence connected withthe business of the company involving moral
turpitude;
(d) has ceased to comply with the requirements
specified for the issue of such licence or permit; or
(e) has contravened any provisions of this Chapter of
this Act or any regulations or rules made under thisAct.
(3) No revocation of a licence or permit under subsection
(2) shall be made against a person, except after due noticehas been issued to show cause within such period as may be
specified in the notice, why the licence or the permit, as the
case may be, should not be revoked.
(4) The Authority or any officer authorized by the
Authority in writing, may—
(a) for the purpose of ascertaining whether any
provisions of this Act or any regulations or rulesmade thereunder are being complied with, enterPerson issued
with a permit ora licence undersection 93or97to maintaincertain recordsand furnishinformation.
63 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
and inspect at all reasonable hours of day or night,
the premises in which the business in respect of
which the licence or the permit, as the case may be,
was issued by the Authority ; and
(b) inspect and take copies of any records or returns
required by this Act or any regulations or rules made
thereunder, to be kept in respect of such business
and of any other records relating to such business.
(5) Where the Authority has reasonable grounds to
believe that any provisions of this Chapter of this Act or any
regulations or rules made thereunder are being violated or
contravened by any person to whom a licence or a permit
has been issued under section 93 or 97, as the case may be,
the Authority may after obtaining a warrant under the hand
of a Magistrate, enter and inspect any premises specified in
such warrant and take into custody any tickets, stocks or
other documents used in connection with the commission
of such offence.
99.(1) Where the Director General is of the opinion
that it is necessary to safeguard the general health and well
being of persons, property and environment, including
animals and birds, he shall have the power to issue to an
Airline, special or general directions on matters pertaining
to health and hygine or on any other matter which is of
national concern, interest or importance.
(2) Non-compliance with any directions issued under
subsection (1), shall be an offence under this Act.
CHAPTER X
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
100.Any person who fails to comply with a written
request made by the Authority or the Director General under
the provisions of this Act or of any regulations or rules made
threunder or furnishes any false information or return, shall
be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on convictionDirector
General’spower to issuedirections toAirlines
Failure to
comply withwritten requestor furnishingfalseinformation.
64 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
be liable to a fine not exceeding the equivalent in Sri Lanka
Rupees of ten thousand SDR or to imprisonment notexceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
101.(1) Where the owner or the operator of an aircraft
in respect of which any charge or penalty is payable underthis Act, refuses or neglects to pay the same or any partthereof on demand, the Authority may without prejudice toany other remedy that may be available under any other law,seize such aircraft and detain the same until the amount dueis paid in full.
(2) The cost as determined by the Authority for seizing or
detaining an aircraft under subsection (1) shall, be paid bythe owner or the operator of the aircraft and if not paid withinfourteen days, the Authority may cause such aircraft to besold to recover the total amount due. Any surplus remainingshall be paid on demand to the owner, the operator or thePilot-in-Command, as the case may be, of the aircraft andwhere no demand for such payment is made for a period oftwo years, the amount remaining as surplus shall be creditedto the Fund of the Authority.
102.(1) Every person who is engaged in the provision
of aeronautical services or operating an aircraft shall berequired to conform to the safety and security requirementscurrently applicable in relation to the provision of suchaeronautical service or the operation  of an aircraft, which
shall be prescribed.
(2) Every person who is required to conform to the safety
and security requirements prescribed under subsection (1)and fails to so conform, shall be liable to the payment of apenalty as prescribed, provided such penalty does not exceeda sum equivalent in Sri Lanka Rupees of ten thousand SDR.
(3) The Director General shall be responsible for the
collection of all penalties imposed under this section andthe monies so collected shall be credited to the Fund.Seizure of anaircraft.
Violating safety
or securityrequirements.
65 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(4) The Director General shall at the time of imposing the
penalty referred to in subsection (2), require in writing theperson being penalized to take all measures necessary orappropriate in order to secure due compliance with the safetyand security measures that were being violated by suchperson, within such period of time as shall be specified.
(5) Where a person who is required to take measures to
secure due compliance with any safety and security measureswithin the period specified under subsection (4), fails orneglects to take such measures,the Authority or the DirectorGeneral, as the case may be, shall suspend or revoke anylicence issued to such person.
103.Any person who:—
(a) contravenes or fails to comply with any provision
of this Act or any regulation or rule madethereunder;
(b) fails to comply with any implementing standard,
direction, directive, procedure or instruction issuedunder any provisions of this Act or any regulationsor rules made thereunder; or
(c) obstructs or impedes any person in the exercise of
his powers or duties under this Act or under anyregulation, order, rule, standard or procedure,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and on conviction
be liable to a fine not exceeding the equivalent in Sri LankaRupees of twenty-five thousand SDR or to imprisonment fora term not exceeding two years or to both such fine andimprisonment.
104.Any person who is guilty of an offence under this
Act for which no penalty is expressly provided for by thisAct, shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding theequivalent in Sri Lanka Rupees of ten thousand SDR or toimprisonment of either description for a term not exceedingtwo years or to both such fine and imprisonment.Offences.
Penalties.
66 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
105.Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, then—
(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
person who at the time of the commission of theoffence was a Director, General Manager, Secretary
or other similar officer of that body ; or
(b) if that body is not a body corporate, every person
who at the time of the commission of the offencewas the President, Manager, Secretary or othersimilar officer of that body,
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he proves
that such offence was committed without his knowledge orthat he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commissionof such offence.
106.(1) Every document purporting to be an order or
other instrument made or issued by the Minister, theAuthority or the Director General, as the case may be, underthis Act or under any regulation or rule made thereunder orany implementing standards and signed by or on their behalf,
shall be received in evidence and shall, until the contrary
is proved, be deemed to be an order or instrument issued bythe Minister, Authority or the Director General, as the casemay be.
(2) Evidence of any order or instrument as referred to in
subsection (1) may in any legal proceedings, be given by
the production of a document certified to be a true copy ofthe order or instrument, by or on behalf of the Minister,Authority or the Director General, as the case may be.
107.(1) All offences under this Act shall be cognizable
offences for the purpose of the application of the provisions
of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.
(2) No Court shall take cognizance of any offence under
this Act or any regulation or rule made thereunder, except
with the sanction of the Attorney- General.Offence
committed by abody of persons.
Proof of
documents.
Offences to be
cognizableoffences andcourt in whichaction foroffences may befiled.
67 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 or any other writtenlaw, an action in respect of any offence committed underthis Act shall, on the determination of the Attorney-General,be filed in the Magistrates Court of Colombo or upon anindictment in the High Court of Sri Lanka holden in theJudicial Zone of Colombo, as the case may be, and onconviction the Court shall impose the punishment as set outin this Act, for the commission of that offence.
108.(1) No action shall lie against an owner of an
aircraft for trespass or nuisance, by reason only of the flightor any ordinary effects of the flight of such aircraft over anyproperty at a height above the ground, which, having regardto wind, weather and all the circumstances of the case isreasonable, so long as the provisions of this Act and anyregulations, rules or implementing standards, directions,directives, instructions or procedures made, thereunder orissued have been duly complied with.
(2) Where any material damage or loss is caused by an
aircraft in flight, taking off or landing or by any person inany such aircraft or by an article or a person falling off fromany such aircraft, to any person or property on land or water,compensation in respect of such damage or loss shall berecoverable from the owner of the aircraft without proof ofnegligence or intention or other cause of action, as thoughthe same had been caused by his willful act, neglect or default,except where the damage or loss was caused by orcontributed to, by the negligence  of the person by whom the
same was suffered :
Provided that where the material damage or loss is caused
as aforesaid in circumstances in which:—
(a) some person other than the owner of the aircraft
would under any other law in force in Sri Lanka beliable to pay compensation in respect of suchdamage or loss ; andTrespass,
nuisance, and
responsibility
for damage.
68 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(b) such compensation is recoverable and is recovered
from the owner of the aircraft by virtue only of the
provisions of this section,
the owner shall be entitled to be indemnified by that other
person in respect of the compensation so recovered from theowner.
(3) Where any aircraft has been let or hired out for a period
exceeding fourteen days to any other person by the ownerthereof and no Pilot-in -Command, navigator or operatingmember of the crew of the aircraft is in the employment of theowner, this section shall be read and construed as thoughthe reference to the “owner” were a reference to the person
to whom the aircraft has been let or hired out.
CHAPTER XI
G
ENERAL
109.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in any provision of this Act, regulations or rulesmade thereunder or in the terms and conditions contained inany licence, certificate, permit, authorization or approvalgranted or issued under this Act, the Director General, in his
capacity as the designated Government Agent in Sri Lanka
responsible for national civil aviation security, shall havethe power to cancel with immediate effect any such licence,certificate, permit, authorization or approval granted orissued, whether the same has been granted or issued byhimself or the Authority, as the case may be, where he has
sufficient reason to believe that the holder of such licence,
certificate, permit, authorization or approval, as the casemay be, poses a threat to the national security or to thenational defence of Sri Lanka or where he was sufficientreason to suspect that the holder of such licence, certificate,permit, authorization or approval is likely to pose a threat to
the national security or to the national defence of Sri Lanka.
(2) The provisions of subsection (3) of section 26 and of
section 112 of this Act, shall not apply in respect of anyDirector
General’s powerto cancellicences etc, incertaincircumstances.
69 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
cancellation of a licence, certificate, permit, authorization
or approval done under subsection (1).
110.Where a licence, certificate, permit, authorization
or approval granted or issued under this Act has been grantedor issued to a body corporate or a partnership and any changetakes place in the directorate of such body corporate or inthe partnership, should be communicated to the appropriate
authority who issued such licence, certificate, permit,
authorization or approval, as the case may be, not more thantwo weeks after such change takes place.
111.(1) There shall be charged annually from every
person who is authorized to provide any aeronautical service
or who is engaged in domestic or international commercial
air transportation, on a licence issued under this Act, a servicecharge at such rates to be determined by the Minister byOrder published in the Gazette. The service charge imposed
under this subsection shall be in addition, and not in
derogation to the licence fee payable for any licences issued:
Provided however the Minister may exempt any public
corporation or a company in which the Government hold a
majority of shares, which is authorized to provide anyaeronautical service or who is engaged in domestic orinernational commercial air transportation, from the paymentof the service charge imposed under this subsection.
(2) The service charge imposed under subsection (1) shall
be paid to the Director General, who shall maintain properrecords of all such payments received by him and shall creditall monies collected to the Fund.
(3) Every person who fails to pay the service charge
required to be paid by such person under this section shall
be guilty of an offence under this Act and on conviction beliable, in addition to any other punishment that shall beimposed by court, to a suspension or cancellation, as thecase may be, of any licence or licences issued to that personunder this Act, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in any other provisions of this Act.Changes taking
place in a body
corporate or
partnership to
which any
authority is
granted.
Service charge
to be imposed.
70 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
112.(1) A person who is aggrieved by any order or
decision made by the Director General or the Authority, as
the case may be, under this Act or any regulations or rules
made thereunder, may prefer an appeal in writing to theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister before the expiry ofthirty working days after the date on which such order ordecision is communicated to that person and the Secretaryshall in dealing with any appeal preferred to him under this
subsection, obtain the observations of the Director General
or the Authority, as the case may be, and after due inquiry,affirm, vary or annul the order or decision against which theappeal has been preferred.
(2) The decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of the
Minister upon an appeal preferred under subsection (1), shall
be final and conclusive and shall not be appealed against inany court or tribunal.
113.Any person authorized by the Director General
shall at all reasonable times, have access to any place to
which access is necessary for purpose of exercising anddischarging any powers and functions vested in him underthe provisions of this Act or any regulations or rules madethereunder and have the authority to examine any documentsfound in such place.
114.An order or decision made by the Director General
or the Authority as the case may be, under this Act or anyregulations or rules made thereunder. shall come into forceon the date on which such order or decision is communicatedto the person concerned and shall, notwithstanding that an
appeal against such order or decision has been preferred to
the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister under section112, continue to be in force until a decision is made on theappeal by the Secretary.
115.(1) A licence, certificate, permit, authorization or
approval granted or issued under this Act to any person,
shall not be:—
(a) transferable to any other person ; orComing into
force of anyorder ordecision of theDirector Generalor the Authority.
Prohibition
against transferof licence & c.Appeal
procedure.
Access to
authorizedpersons.
71 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(b) used for the benefit of any other person.
(2) Any transfer or use of a licence, certificate, permit,
authorization or approval done in contravention of theprovision of subsection (1), shall be null and void.
116.(1) The Authority shall establish a State Safety
Program with a view to integrating diverse andmulti-disciplinary aviation activities conducted in terms ofthis Act or any rules or regulations made thereunder into acoherent program, setting out safety indicators, safety targetsto be maintained to achieve an acceptable level of safety, asmay be determined by the Authority.
(2)  The Authority shall establish and maintain a Safety
Data Collection and Processing System, for the purpose ofprotecting all such information that is received by theAuthority or the Director General, as the case may be, in thecourse of the exercise and discharge of its or his powers andfunction, under this Act and the Civil Aviation Authority ofSri Lanka Act, as the case may be.
117.(1) The Minister may, taking into consideration
the interest of the national economy and the national securityof the State, make regulations in respect of all or any matterrequired by this Act to be prescribed and in respect of whichregulations are authorized by this Act to be made.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1) and subject to the provisions ofsubsections (3) and (4) of this section, regulations may bemade by the Minister for or in respect in all or any of thefollowing matters :—
(a) carrying out the provisions of the Convention, any
Annex thereto relating to international standardsand recommended practices (being an Annexadopted in accordance with the Convention andany amendment to the Convention) ;Establishment ofa State SafetyProgram and aSafety DataCollection andProcessingSystem.
Regulations.
72 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(b) issue of Certificates  of Airworthiness and the terms
and conditions subject to which such Certificates
may be issued ;
(c) licencing, inspection, regulation and control of
Aerodromes and the classification of Aerodromes
for the purpose of issue of licences ;
(d) access to Aerodromes and places where aircraft land
and to aircraft factories, for the purpose of
inspection and the prohibition of trespassing on
aerodromes ;
(e) employment of persons in or in connection with
air navigation and the licensing of those employed
at licensed Aerodromes in the inspection or
supervision of aircraft ;
(f) conditions under which aircraft entering or leaving
Sri Lanka may fly and the conditions under which
an aircraft may fly from one part of Sri Lanka to
another part of Sri Lanka ;
(g) conditions under which passengers and goods may
be carried by air and aircraft may be used for othercommercial, industrial or gainful purposes andspecifying goods that are prohibited from beingcarried by air ;
(h) prevention of interference with the use or
effectiveness of apparatus used in connection withair navigation, the prohibition or regulation of theuse of such apparatus and the display of signs andlights liable to endanger aircraft ;
(i) safety, efficiency and regularity of air navigation,
safety of aircraft and of persons and property carriedtherein, the prevention of aircraft from endangeringother persons and property and the detention ofaircraft for any of the purposes specified in thisparagraph ;
73 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(j) safety oversight of civil aviation and matters
connected therewith ;
(k) payment of compensation to any officer or servant
of the Authority where death or injury is caused as
a direct result of an aircraft accident or incident or
inspection conducted by such officer or servant inthe performance of his or her duties ;
(l) supply of meteorological information for the
purpose of air navigation by persons engaged in or
employed in or in connection with, such air
navigation;
(m) regulation of the making of signals and other
communications by or to aircraft and persons carriedtherein ;
(n) regulation of the use of the civil air ensign and any
other ensign established by the Minister for purposes
connected with air navigation ;
(o) prevention of smuggling by air ;
(p) manner and conditions relating to the issue,
validation, renewal, extension or variation of any
certificate, licence, permit or other document
required to be issued under this Act or under anyregulation or rule made thereunder and the form,
custody, production, cancellation, suspension,
endorsement and surrender of any such document ;
(q) regulation of the charges that may be made for the
use of Aerodromes and for services provided at suchAerodromes ;
(r) regulation of the charges that may be made from
overflying aircraft for the use of air navigation
services or facilities provided by State or any
Aerodrome in Sri Lanka ;
74 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(s) prescribing the fees to be paid in respect of the
issue, validation, renewal, extension, or variation
of any  certificate, licence, permit or other document
or the undergoing of any examination or test
required by this Act or any regulations or rules made
thereunder ;
(t) the regulation and control of the conditions under
which noise and vibration may be caused by aircraft
on Aerodromes ; and
(u) classification of commercial air transportation.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
hereinbefore conferred, any regulations made under this Act
may provide for:—
(a) different provisions with reference to different
classes of aircraft, Aerodromes, persons or property
and with respect to different circumstances and
different areas of Sri Lanka but shall, to the extent
that it is practicable, be made so as not to
discriminate in like circumstances between aircraft
registered in Sri Lanka operated on charter terms
by one air transport undertaking and such aircraft
so operated by another such undertaking ;
(b) the application of such regulations in respect of all
aircrafts registered in Sri Lanka, wherever they may
be ;
(c) the prohibition or regulation of carrying on certain
activities by any persons in or members of the crew,
of an aircraft registered in Sri Lanka wherever they
may be ; and
(d) the prohibition or regulation of doing anything in
relation to an aircraft registered in Sri Lanka by any
person other than any personnel authorized under
the provisions of this Act.
75 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(4) Any regulations made under this Act in relation to
aircraft, may also provide for the detention of an aircraft tosecure compliance with such regulation or with anyprovisions of this Act and may make such further provisionas appears to the Minister to be necessary or expedient forsecuring such detention.
118.The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance
may in consultation with the Minister, make regulations forand in respect of all or any of the following matters :—
(a) the sale of passenger tickets for travel by aircraft
and the booking of passage for travel by aircraft ;
(b) the collection of freight charges on exports by
aircraft ;
(c) the collection of freight charges on imports by
aircraft, where contract for such carriage of freightis made in Sri Lanka ;
(d) the furnishing of statements or declarations by
holders of licences issued under section 99 that
may become necessary to ensure that the regulations
made  under section 117 are complied with,including such details as to:—
(i) the traffic documents issued during any
month, whether or not any cash collections
were involved in such issue ;
(ii)the total cash collection effected in any
month from sale of passenger tickets and fromfreight charges ; and
(iii)refunds granted against air transportation
documents issued in Sri Lanka.Regulations to
be made by theMinister ofFinance.
76 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
119.(1) Every regulation made by the Minister and the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, under sections
117 and 118 of this Act shall be published in the Gazette
and shall come into operation on the date of such
publication, or on such later date as may be specified in the
regulation.
(2) Every regulation published under subsection (1) shall,
as soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be
brought before Parliament for approval. Any such regulation
which is not so approved shall deemed to be rescinded as
from the date of its disapproval, but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.
(3) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded, shall be
published in the Gazette.
120.(1) The Director-General shall have the power to
issue whenever he considers it necessary or appropriate to
do so, such implementing standards for the purpose of giving
effect to any of the provisions of this Act, including theArticles of the Convention specified in the Schedule to this
Act or any regulations or rules made thereunder.
(2) It shall be the duty of all persons in respect of whom
any implementing standards are issued under subsection (1),
to comply with the same.
121.The Director General shall have the power to issue
to all operators and licence holders providing aeronauticalservices, such general or special directions in regard to any
matter connected with or relating to the maintenance of
public safety and welfare of the citizens of Sri Lanka and itshall be the duty of all such operators and licence holders, as
the case may be, to comply with such directions.Director General
to issue generalor specialdirections.Gazetting of
regulationsmade undersections 117 and118.
Power to issue
implementingstandards.
77 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
122.(1) The Authority may make rules in respect of all
or any of the matters in respect of which rules are authorizedor required by this Act to be made.
(2) No rule made by the Authority under subsection (1)
shall have effect until it has been approved by the Minister,
and notification of such approval is published in the Gazette.
123.The equivalent in Sri Lanka Rupees of SDR for
purpose of imposing a fine for an offence committed under
this Act, shall be made on the basis of the value of the rupeedetermined in terms of SDR, for the date preceding the date
of the commission of the the offence in respect of which
such fine is being imposed.
124.(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise
required—
“aerial work” means aircraft operations in which an
aircraft is used for purposes of agriculture,construction, photography, surveying, observation
and patrol, search and rescue operations, aerial
advertisement, broadcasting or communication,production of air turbulence, flying training, flower
dropping and emergency operations ;
“Aerodrome” means any defined land or water area
intended to be used, whether wholly or partly, for
the landing and departure of aircraft and allbuildings, sheds, vessels, piers and other structures
standing thereon or appertaining thereto ;
“Air Navigation Act” means the Air Navigation Act
(Chapter 365) and includes the Air Navigation
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 55 of 1992 ;
“air navigation services” means navigational aids and
navigational facilities;Rules.
Equivalent of
SDR in rupees.
Interpretation.
78 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
“air traffic control” means a service provided for the
purpose of—
(a) preventing collisions:—
(i) between aircrafts ;
(ii) on the manoeuveing area between aircrafts
and obstructions; and
(b)  expediting and maintaining an orderly flow of
air traffic ;
“aircraft” means any machine that can derive support
in the atmosphere from the aerodynamic reactions
of the air, other than the reactions of the air againstthe earth’s surface ;
“Authority” means the Civil Aviation Authority of Sri
Lanka, established by the Civil Aviation Authorityof Sri Lanka Act, No. 34 of 2002;
“authorized security personnel” means a member of
the Security Services maintained by a ServiceProvider to whom a licence is issued by the Director
General for the provision and maintenance of an
aviation security service and includes any memberof the Armed Forces or Police Force, who isperforming or is called upon to perform dutieswithin the airport ;
“business of air transportation” means the making
available (as the operator of an aircraft or as aprincipal or agent) of any accommodation for the
carriage of persons, cargo or mail, on flight by
aircraft (whether registered in Sri Lanka or not) inany part of the world, including flights to and fromthe territory of Sri Lanka ;
“Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka Act” means
the Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka Act, No.
34 of 2002 ;
79 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
 “Convention” means the Convention on International
Civil Aviation which was signed at Chicago on the
7th day of December, 1944, as amended by any
subsequent Convention or Agreement and includesany Annex attached to such Convention ;
“dangerous goods” means any substances or articles
which are capable of posing a risk to health, safety,property or the environment and which are shownin the list of dangerous goods specified in theTechnical Instructions issued by International Civil
Aviation Organization or which are classified as
dangerous goods, according to such TechnicalInstructions ;
“Director General” means the Director General of Civil
Aviation appointed under section 11 of the CivilAviation Authority of Sri Lanka Act, No. 34 of 2002 ;
“foreign aircraft” means an aircraft which is not
registered in Sri Lanka under this Act ;
“Fund” means the Fund of the Authority established
by section 12 of the Civil Aviation Authority ofSri Lanka Act ;
“ground handling services” means services necessary
for an aircraft’s arrival at and departing from an
Aerodrome, other than air traffic services ;
“military aircraft” means an aircraft used or operated
for or on behalf of a State for purposes other than
the carriage of passengers or cargo for hire or reward;
“National Aviation Policy” means the National Policy
on Aviation formulated and adopted by the Cabinetof Ministers ;
“navigational aids” means visual and non-visual-
navigational aids along an air route, visual and non-visual aids to approaching and landing atAerodromes and includes communication services,meteorological services and air traffic control
services ;
80 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
“navigational facilities” means facilities provided to
permit safe navigation of aircraft and includes visualand non-visual navigational aids ;
“operator” means a person, organization or an
enterprise engaged in or offering to engage in
aircraft operations and includes any person who
causes or authorizes the operation of an aircraft,whether with or without the control (in the capacity
of a owner, lessee, or otherwise) of the aircraft ;
“operator of the Aerodrome” means, in relation to any
premises used or appropriated for use as an
Aerodrome, the person maintaining or operating oris authorized to maintain and operate an Aerodrome
in those premises or in the case of an Aerodrome
which is established or maintained by or on behalfof the Government, the Service Provider so
appointed for that purpose ;
“Regional Air Navigation Plan” means a plan of routes,
facilities and services agreed to by Governments at
any Regional Air Navigation Conference andapproved by the Council of the International Civil
Aviation Organization ;
“SARPS”means Standards and Recommended
Practices adopted by the Council of the
International Civil Aviation Organization underArticle 37 of the Convention ;
“SDR” means Special Drawing Rights  defined by the
International Monetary Fund ;
“standards” means:—
(a) international standards adopted by the Council
of the International Civil Aviation Organization
81 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
under Article 37 of the Convention and to which
Sri Lanka has not filed differences under Article
38 of the Convention ; and
(b)  the Recommended Practices adopted by the
Council of the International Civil Aviation
Organization under Article 37 of the Convention
and which have been duly implemented in
Sri Lanka;
 “State Party to the Convention” means a State that
has ratified or has adhered to the Convention ;
“territory of Sri Lanka” means the land area, internal
waters and the territorial waters of Sri Lanka and
includes the air space above such areas.
(2) Any reference in this Act to “goods or articles” shall
be construed as including a reference to mail or to animals
and any reference in this Act to any “country or territory”
shall, unless the context otherwise requires, be construed as
including a reference to the territorial waters, if any, adjacent
to that country or territory.
(3) In this Act, the expression “purposes of civil aviation”
includes all purposes connected with air navigation, except
any purpose connected to the defence of Sri Lanka by air.
125.In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
126.(1) The provisions of:—
(a)  the Air Navigation Act, (Chapter 365), other than
the provisions contained in Part III of that Act; and
(b) the Air Navigation (Special Provisions) Act, No. 55
of 1992, other than Part II of that Act, are hereby
repealed.Sinhala text to
prevail in caseof inconsistency.
Repeal and
savingsprovisions.
82 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(2) Notwithstanding  the repeal of the provisions referred
to in subsection (1):—
(a) all activities connected with the provision of
aeronautical services that are being carried on by
the Agent  by virtue of the powers vested in suchAgent under the repealed provisions, shall be
continued to be carried on by such Agent until it is
issued with such appropriate licences in its capacityas the Statutory Service Provider under subsection
(1) of section 127 ;
(b) every regulation or Order made under any of the
repealed provisions and in force on the appointed
date, in so far as such regulation or Order is not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, shallbe deemed to be a regulation or Order made under
this Act and may be amended or rescinded by any
regulation or Order made under this Act ;
(c) every licence or Certificate issued or rendered valid
under any repealed provisions or any regulation
made there under and in force on the appointeddate, shall be deemed to be a licence or Certificate
issued under this Act and shall be valid and effectual
until the expiry of the period for which such licenceor Certificate was issued or was rendered valid ;
(d) every approval granted and every designation,
authorization or appointment made, directives,circulars, manuals, instructions and any other
publications issued, boards or any other bodies
established, under any regulation made under anyof the repealed provisions, shall be deemed to be
granted, made or issued under this Act and shall,
unless otherwise cancelled or rendered invalid,continue to be in force ; and
(e)  every decree, order or award entered or made in
favour of or against Department of Civil Aviationby any Court or tribunal or other body in any action,
83 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
matter, proceeding or thing shall, with effect from
the appointed date, be deemed to be a decree, orderor award entered or made in favour of or against the
Authority and may be enforced accordingly.
127. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 6 of
this Act, the Agent appointed under section 21
A of the Air
Navigation Act (Chapter 365), shall, on and after theappointed date, be deemed to be a Service Provider (in this
Act referred to as the “Statutory Service Provider”) for the
purposes of this Act and shall be issued with all the relevantlicences required to be issued under this Act, to enable such
Statutory Service Provider to provide the aeronautical
services such Agent was engaged in providing as on suchappointed date. The provisions of this Act pertaining to the
requirements imposed on those to whom a licence is issued
under this Act, shall apply to and in respect of all licencesissued to such Statutory Service Provider.
(2) The Minister shall cause an Order pertaining to the
appointment of the Statutory Service Provider to be
published in the Gazette.
(3) The issue of any licences to the Statutory Service
Provider under subsection (1) of this section, shall not in
any way affect or prejudice any duty cast on such Statutory
Service Provider to fulfill any obligations that may havebeen imposed upon such Statutory Service Provider in its
capacity as the Agent appointed under section 21
A of the
Air Navigation Act (Chapter 365), prior to the appointeddate.
128.On the issue of the licences to the Statutory Service
Provider under subsection (1) of section 127 of this Act, the
Authority shall grant permission in writing to the StatutoryService Provider to withhold any immovable properties that
were in its possession in its capacity as Agent as on the
appointed date,  to enable such Statutory Service Providerto provide any aeronautical service or any other service
which is connected with  or incidental to the provision of
such aeronautical service.Withholding of
properties by theStatutoryServiceProvider.Provisions
relating to theAgent appointedunder section21
A of the Air
Navigation Act,(Chapter 365).
84 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
SCHEDULE [Section 2]
ARTICLES OF THE CONVENTION RELATING TO SAFETY,
REGULARITY, EFFICIENCY AND SECURITY OF
CIVIL AVIATION
ARTICLE   1 -  S OVEREIGNTY
The Contracting States recognize that every State has complete
and exclusive sovereignty over the airspace above its territory.
ARTICLE  2 - TERRITORY
For the purposes of this Convention the territory of a State shall be
deemed to be the land areas and territorial waters adjacent theretounder the sovereignty, suzerainty, protection or mandate of suchState.
A
RTICLE   3 - CIVIL AND STATE AIRCRAFTS
(a) This Convention shall be applicable only to civil aircraft,
and shall not be applicable to state aircraft.
(b) Aircraft used in military, customs and police services shall
be deemed to be state aircraft;
(c) No state aircraft of a Contracting State shall fly over the
territory of another State or land thereon withoutauthorization by special agreement or otherwise, and inaccordance with the terms thereof.
(d) The Contracting State undertake, when issuing regulations
for their state aircraft, that they will have due regard for thesafety of navigation of civil aircraft.
A
RTICLE    3  bis
(a) The Contracting States recognize that every State must refrain
from resorting to the use of weapons against civil aircraftin flight and that, in case of interception, the lives of personson board and the safety of aircraft must not be endangered.This provision shall not be interpreted as modifying in anyway the rights and obligations of States set forth in theCharter of the United Nations;
(b) The Contracting States recognize that every State, in the
exercise of its sovereignty, is entitled to require the landingat some designated airport of a civil aircraft flying aboveits territory without authority or if there are reasonable
85 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
grounds to conclude that it is being used for any purpose
inconsistent with the aims of this Convention; it may alsogive such aircraft any other instructions to put an end tosuch violations.  For this purpose, the Contracting Statesmay resort to any appropriate means consistent with relevantrules of international law, including the relevant provisionsof this Convention, specifically paragraph ( a) of this Article.
Each Contracting State agrees to publish its regulations inforce regarding the interception of civil aircraft;
(c) Every civil aircraft shall comply with an order given in
conformity with paragraph ( b) of this Article.  To this end
each Contracting State shall establish all necessary provisionsin its national laws or regulations to make such compliancemandatory for any civil aircraft registered in that State oroperated by an operator who has his principal place ofbusiness or permanent residence in that State.  EachContracting State shall make any violation of such applicablelaws or regulations punishable by severe penalties and shallsubmit the case to its competent authorities in accordancewith its laws or regulations;
(d) Each Contracting State shall take appropriate measures to
prohibit the deliberate use of any civil aircraft registered inthat State or operated by an operator who has his principalplace of business or permanent residence in that State forany purpose inconsistent with the aims of this Convention.This provision shall not affect paragraph ( a) or derogate
from paragraphs ( b) and (c) of this Article.
A
RTICLE   4 -  M ISUSE OF CIVIL AVIATION
Each Contracting State agrees not to use civil aviation for any
purpose inconsistent with the aims of this Convention.
ARTICLE  5 - RIGHT OF NON-SCHEDULED  FLIGHT
Each Contracting State agrees that all aircraft of the other
Contracting States, being aircraft not engaged in scheduled internationalair services, shall have the right, subject to the observance of theterms of this Convention, to make flights into or in transit non-stopacross its territory and to make stops for non-traffic purposes withoutthe necessity of obtaining prior permission, and subject to the right ofthe State flown over to require landing. Each Contracting Statenevertheless reserves the right, for reasons of safety of flight, torequire aircraft desiring to proceed over regions which are inaccessibleor without adequate air navigation facilities, to follow prescribed
86 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
routes or to obtain special permission for such flights. Such aircraft,
if engaged in the carriage of passengers, cargo or mail for remunerationor hire on other than scheduled international air services, shall also,subject to the provisions of Article 7, have the privilege of taking onor discharging passengers, cargo or mail, subject to the right of anyState where such embarkation or discharge takes place, to imposesuch regulations, conditions or limitations as it may consider desirable.
A
RTICLE  6 - SCHEDULED  AIR SERVICES
No scheduled international air service may be operated over or
into the territory of a Contracting State, except with the specialpermission or other authorization of that State, and in accordancewith the terms of such permission or authorization.
A
RTICLE  7 -  C ABOTAGE
Each Contracting State shall have the right to refuse permission to
aircraft of any other Contracting States to take on in its territorypassengers, mail and cargo carried for remuneration or hire anddestined for another point within its territory. Each Contracting Stateundertakes not to enter into any arrangements, which specificallygrant any such privilege on an exclusive basis to any other State or anairline of any other State, and not to obtain any such exclusive privilegefrom any other State.
A
RTICLE  8 -   P ILOTLESS  AIRCRAFT
No aircraft capable of being flown without a pilot shall be flown
without a pilot over the territory of a Contracting State without specialauthorization by that State and in accordance with the terms of suchauthorization. Each Contracting State undertakes to insure that theflight of such aircraft without a pilot in regions open to civil aircraft,shall be so controlled as to obviate danger to civil aircraft.
A
RTICLE  9 - PROHIBITED  AREAS
(a) Each contracting State may, for reasons of military necessity
or public safety, restrict or prohibit uniformly the aircraftof  other States from flying over certain areas of its territory,provided that no distinction in this respect is made betweenthe aircraft of the State whose territory is involved orengaged in scheduled international airline services, and theaircraft of the other Contracting States likewise engaged.Such prohibited areas shall be of reasonable extent andlocation so as not to interfere unnecessarily with airnavigation. Descriptions of such prohibited areas in theterritory of a Contracting State, as well as any subsequentalterations therein, shall be communicated as soon as
87 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
possible to the other Contracting States and to the
International Civil Aviation Organization.
(b) Each Contracting State reserves also the right, in exceptional
circumstances or during a period of emergency, or in theinterest of public safety, and with immediate effect,temporarily to restrict or prohibit flying over the whole orany part of its territory, on condition that such restrictionor prohibition shall be applicable without distinction ofnationality, to aircraft of all other States.
(c) Each Contracting State, under such regulations as it may
prescribe, may require any aircraft entering the areascontemplate in subparagraphs ( a) or (b) above to effect a
landing as soon as practicable thereafter, at some designatedairport within its territory.
A
RTICLE  10 - L ANDING AT CUSTOMS AIRPORT
Except in a case where, under the terms of this Convention or a
special authorization, aircraft are permitted to cross the territory of aContracting State without landing, every aircraft which enters theterritory of a Contracting State shall, if the regulations of that State sorequire, land at an airport designated by that State for the purpose ofcustoms and other examination. On departure from the territory of aContracting State, such aircraft shall depart from a similarly designatedcustoms airport. Particulars of all designated customs airports shall bepublished by the State and transmitted to the International CivilAviation Organization established under Part II of this Convention,for communication to all other contracting States.
A
RTICLE  11 - A PPLICABILITY  OF AIR REGULATIONS
Subject to the provisions of this Convention, the laws and
regulations of a Contracting State relating to the admission to ordeparture from its territory aircraft engaged in international airnavigation or to the operation and navigation of such aircraft whilewithin its territory, shall be applied to the aircraft of all ContractingStates without distinction as to nationality, and shall be complied withby such aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within theterritory of that State.
A
RTICLE  12 - R ULES OF THE AIR
Each Contracting State undertakes to adopt measures to insure
that every aircraft flying over or maneuvering within its territory andthat every aircraft carrying its nationality mark, wherever such aircraftmay be, shall comply with the rules and regulations relating to theflight and maneuver of aircraft there in force. Each Contracting State
88 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
undertakes to keep its own regulations in these respects uniform to
the greatest possible extent, with those established from time to timeunder this Convention. Over the high seas, the rules in force shall bethose established under this Convention. Each Contracting Stateundertakes to insure the prosecution of all persons violating theregulations applicable.
A
RTICLE  13 - E NTRY AND CLEARANCE  REGULATIONS
The laws and regulations of a Contracting State as to the admission
to or departure from its territory of passengers, crew or cargo ofaircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, immigration,passports, customs and quarantine, shall be complied with by or onbehalf of such passengers, crew or cargo upon entrance into ordeparture from, or while within the territory of the State.
A
RTICLE  14 - P REVENTION  OF SPREAD OF DISEASE
Each Contracting State agrees to take effective measurers to prevent
the spread by means of air navigation of cholera, typhus (epidemic),smallpox, yellow fever, plague, and such other communicable diseasesas the Contracting States shall from time to time decide to designate,and to that end Contracting States will keep in close consultation withthe agencies concerned with international regulations relating tosanitary measures applicable to aircraft. Such consultation shall bewithout prejudice to the application of any existing internationalconvention on the subject, to which the Contracting States may beparties.
A
RTICLE  15 - A IRPORT AND SIMILAR CHARGES
Every airport in a Contracting State which is open to public use by
its national aircraft shall likewise, subject to the provisions of Article68, be open under uniform conditions to the aircraft of all the otherContracting States. The like uniform conditions shall apply to the use,by aircraft of every Contracting State, of all air navigation facilities,including radio and meteorological services, which may be providedfor public use for the safety and expedition of air navigation. Anycharges that may be imposed or permitted to be imposed by aContracting State for the use of such airports and air navigationfacilities by the aircraft of any other Contracting State, shall not behigher:—
(a) as to aircraft not engaged in scheduled international air
services, than those that would be paid by its national aircraftof the same class engaged in similar operation; and
(b) as to aircraft engaged in scheduled international air services,
than those that would be paid by its national aircraft engagedin similar international air services.
89 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
All such charges shall be published and communicated to the
International Civil Aviation Organization :
provided that, upon representation by an interested Contracting
State, the charges imposed for the use of airports and other facilitiesshall be subject to review by the Council, which shall report andmake recommendations thereon for the consideration of the State orStates concerned. No fees, dues or other charges shall be imposed byany Contracting State in respect solely of the right of transit over orentry into or exit form its territory of any aircraft of a Contacting
State or persons or property thereon.
A
RTICLE  16 - S EARCH OF AIRCRAFT
The appropriate authorities of each of the Contracting States shall
have the right, without unreasonable delay, to search aircraft of theother contracting States on landing or departure and to inspect the
certificates and other documents prescribed by this Convention.
A
RTICLE  17 - N ATIONALITY  OF AIRCRAFT
Aircraft have the nationality of the State in which they are
registered.
ARTICLE  18 - D UAL REGISTRATION
An aircraft cannot be validly registered in more than one State,
but its registration may be changed from one State to another.
ARTICLE  19 - N ATIONAL LAWS GOVERNING REGISTRATION
The registration or transfer of registration of aircraft in any
Contracting State, shall be made in accordance with its laws and
regulations.
ARTICLE  20 - D ISPLAY OF MARKS
Every aircraft engaged in international air navigation shall bear its
appropriate nationality and registration marks.
ARTICLE  21 - R EPORT OF REGISTRATIONS
Each Contracting State undertakes to supply to any other Contracting
State or to the International Civil Aviation Organization, on demand,information concerning the registration and ownership of anyparticular aircraft registered in that State. In addition, each ContractingState shall furnish reports to the International Civil AviationOrganization, under such regulations as the latter may prescribe,giving such pertinent data as can be made available concerning theownership and control of aircraft registered in that State and habituallyengaged in international air navigation. The data thus obtained by theInternational Civil Aviation Organization shall be made available by
it on request to the other Contracting States.
90 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
ARTICLE  22 - F ACILITATION  OF FORMALITIES
Each Contracting State agrees to adopt all practicable measures,
through the issuance of special regulations or otherwise, to facilitateand expedite navigation by aircraft between the territories ofContracting States and to prevent unnecessary delays to aircraft, crews,passengers and cargo, especially in the administration of the lawsrelating to immigration, quarantine, customs and clearance.
A
RTICLE 23 - CUSTOMS AND IMMIGRATION  PROCEDURES
Each Contracting State undertakes, so far as it may find practicable,
to establish customs and immigration procedures affecting internationalair navigation in accordance with the practices which may be establishedor recommended from time to time, pursuant to this Convention.Nothing in this Convention shall be construed as preventing theestablishment of customs-free airports.
A
RTICLE  24 - C USTOMS DUTY
Aircraft on a flight to, from, or across the territory of another
Contracting State shall be admitted temporarily free of duty, subjectto the customs regulations of the State. Fuel, lubricating oils, spareparts, regular equipment and aircraft stores on board an aircraft of aContracting State, on arrival in the territory of another ContractingState and retained on board on leaving the territory of that State shallbe exempt from customs duty, inspection fees or similar national orlocal duties and charges. This exemption shall not apply to anyquantities or articles unloaded, except in accordance with the customsregulations of the  State, which may require that they shall be keptunder customs supervision.
Spare parts and equipment imported into the territory of a
Contracting State for incorporation in or use on an aircraft of anotherContracting State engaged in international air navigation shall beadmitted free of customs duty, subject to compliance with regulationsof the State concerned, which may provide that the articles shall bekept under customs supervision and control.
A
RTICLE  25 - A IRCRAFT IN DISTRESS
Each Contracting State undertakes to provide such measures of
assistance to aircraft in distress in its territory as it may find practicable,and to permit, subject to control by its own authorities, the owners ofthe aircraft or authorities of the State in which the aircraft is registered,to provide such measures of assistance as may be necessitated by thecircumstances. Each Contracting State, when undertaking search formissing aircraft, will collaborate in coordinated measures which maybe recommended from time to time, pursuant to this Convention.
91 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
ARTICLE  26 - INVESTIGATION  OF ACCIDENTS
In the event of an accident to an aircraft of a Contracting State
occurring in the territory of another Contracting State and involving
death or serious injury or indicating serious technical defect in theaircraft or air navigation facilities, the State in which the accident
occurs will institute an inquiry into the circumstances of the accident,
in accordance, so far as its laws permit, with the procedure which maybe recommended by the International Civil Aviation Organization.
The State in which the aircraft is registered shall be given the
opportunity to appoint observers to be present at the inquiry and theState holding the inquiry shall communicate the report and findings
in the matter to that State.
A
RTICLE  27 - E XEMPTION FROM SEIZURE ON PATENT CLAIMS
(a) While engaged in international air navigation, any
authorized entry of aircraft of a Contracting State into the
territory of another Contracting State or authorized transit
across the territory of such State with or without landings,shall not entail any seizure or detention of the aircraft or
any claim against the owner or operator thereof or any
other interference therewith by or on behalf of such Stateor any person therein, on the ground that the construction,mechanism, parts, accessories or operation of the aircraft is
an infringement of any patent, design, or model duly granted
or registered in the State whose territory is entered by theaircraft, it being agreed that no deposit of security in
connection with the foregoing exemption from seizure or
detention of the aircraft, shall in any case be required in theState entered by such aircraft.
(b) The provisions of paragraph ( a) of this Article shall also be
applicable to the storage of spare parts and spare equipment
for the aircraft and the right to use and install the same in
the repair of an aircraft of a Contracting State in the territoryof any other Contracting State, provided that any patented
part or equipment so stored shall not be sold or distributed
internally in or exported commercially from the ContractingState entered by the aircraft.
(c) The benefits of this Article shall apply only to such States
parties to this Convention, as either:—
(1) are parties to the International Convention for the
Protection of Industrial Property and to any
amendments thereof; or
92 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(2) have enacted patent laws which recognize and give
adequate protection to inventions made by thenationals of the other States parties to thisConvention.
A
RTICLE  28 - A IR NAVIGATION  FACILITIES AND STANDARD SYSTEMS
Each Contracting State undertakes, so far as it may find practicable,
to —
(a) provide in its territory, airports, radio services,
meteorological services and other air navigation facilitiesto facilitate international air navigation, in accordance withthe standards and practices recommended or establishedfrom time to time, pursuant to this Convention;
(b) adopt and put into operation the appropriate standard
systems of communications procedure, codes, markings,signals, lighting and other operational practices and ruleswhich may be recommended or established from time totime, pursuant to this Convention;
(c) collaborate in international measures to secure the
publication of aeronautical maps and charts in accordancewith standards, which may be recommended or establishedfrom time to time, pursuant to this Convention.
A
RTICLE  29 - D OCUMENTS  CARRIED IN AIRCRAFT
Every aircraft of a Contracting State, engaged in international
navigation, shall carry the following documents in conformity withthe conditions prescribed in this Convention :—
(a) its certificate of registration ;
(b) its certificate of airworthiness;
(c) the appropriate licenses for each member of the crew;
(d) its journey log book;
(e) if it is equipped with radio apparatus, the aircraft radio
station license;
(f) if it carries passengers, a list of their names and places of
embarkation and destination;
(g) if it carries cargo, a manifest and detailed declarations of
the cargo.
93 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
ARTICLE  30 - A IRCRAFT RADIO EQUIPMENT
(a) Aircraft of each Contracting State may, in or over the
territory of other Contracting States, carry radio transmittingapparatus only if a license to install and operate suchapparatus has been issued by the appropriate authorities ofthe State in which the aircraft is registered. The use of radiotransmitting apparatus in the territory of the ContractingState whose territory is flown over, shall be in accordancewith the regulations prescribed by that State.
(b) Radio transmitting apparatus may be used only by members
of the flight crew who are provided with a special licensefor the purposes, issued by the appropriate authorities ofthe State in which the aircraft is registered.
A
RTICLE  31 - C ERTIFICATES  OF AIRWORTHINESS
Every aircraft engaged in international navigation shall be provided
with a certificate of airworthiness issued or rendered valid by theState in which it is registered.
A
RTICLE 32 - LICENSES OF PERSONNEL
(a) The pilot of every aircraft and the other members of the
operating crew of every aircraft engaged in internationalnavigation, shall be provided with certificates of competencyand licenses issued or rendered valid by the State in whichthe aircraft is registered.
(b) Each Contracting State reserves the right to refuse to
recognize, for the purpose of flight above its own territory,certificates of competency and licenses granted to any ofits nationals by another Contracting State.
A
RTICLE   33 - R ECOGNITION  OF CERTIFICATES  AND LICENSES
Certificates of airworthiness and certificates of competency and
licenses issued or rendered valid by the Contracting State in which theaircraft is registered, shall be recognized as valid by the otherContracting States, provided that the requirements under suchcertificates or licenses were issued or rendered valid are equal to orabove the minimum standards which may be established from time totime, pursuant to this Convention
A
RTICLE  34 - J OURNEY LOGBOOKS
There shall be maintained in respect every aircraft engaged in
international navigation, a journey log book in which shall be enteredparticulars of the aircraft, its crew and of each journey, in such formas may be prescribed from time to time, pursuant to this Convention.
94 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
ARTICLE  35 - C ARGO RESTRICTIONS
(a) No munitions of war or implements of war may be carried
in or above the territory of a State in aircraft engaged ininternational navigation, except by permission of such State.Each State shall determine by regulations what constitutesmunitions of war or implements of war for the purposes ofthis Article, giving due consideration, for the purposes ofuniformity, to such recommendations as the InternationalCivil Aviation Organization may from time to time make.
(b) Each Contracting State reserves the right, for reasons of
public order and safety, to regulate or prohibit the carriagein or above its territory, of articles other than thoseenumerated in paragraph ( a):
provided that no distinction is made in this respect
between its national aircraft engaged in internationalnavigation and the aircraft of the other States so engaged :and provided further that no restriction shall be imposedwhich may interfere with the carriage and use on aircraft ofapparatus necessary for the operation or navigation of theaircraft or the safety of the personnel or passengers.
A
RTICLE  36 - P HOTOGRAPHIC  APPARATUS
Each Contracting State may prohibit or regulate the use of
photographic apparatus in aircraft over its territory.
ARTICLE  37 - A DOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL  STANDARDS  AND PROCEDURES
Each Contracting State undertakes to collaborate in securing the
highest practicable degree of uniformity in regulations, standards,procedures, and organization in relation to aircraft, personnel, airwaysand auxiliary services in all matters in which such uniformity willfacilitate and improve air navigation. To this end the InternationalCivil Aviation Organization shall adopt and amend from time to time,as may be necessary, international standards and recommendedpractices and procedures, dealing with —
(a) communications systems and air navigation aids, including
ground marking;
(b) characteristics of airports and landing areas;
(c) rules of the air and air traffic control practices;
(d) licensing of operating and mechanical personnel;
(e) airworthiness of aircraft;
(f) registration and identification of aircraft;
(g) collection and exchange of meteorological information;
(h) log books;
95 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
(i) aeronautical maps and charts;
(j) customs and immigration procedure;
(k) aircraft in distress and investigation of accidents,
and such other matters concerned with the safety, regularity, and
efficiency of air navigation, as may from time to time appearappropriate.
A
RTICLE  38 - D EPARTURES  FROM INTERNATIONAL
STANDARDS  AND PROCEDURES
Any state which finds it impracticable to comply in all respects
with any such international standards or procedure, or to bring itsown regulations or practices into full accord with any internationalstandard or procedure after amendment of the latter, or which deemsit necessary to adopt regulations or practices differing in any particularrespect from those established by an international standard, shall giveimmediate notification to the International Civil Aviation Organizationof the differences between its own practice and that established by theinternational standard. In the case of amendments to internationalstandards, any State which does not make the appropriate amendmentsto its own regulations or practices, shall give notice to the Councilwithin sixty day of the adoption of the amendment to the internationalstandard, or indicate the action which it proposes to take. In any suchcase the Council shall make immediate notification to all States, of thedifference which exists between one or more features of aninternational standard and the corresponding national practice of thatState.
A
RTICLE  39 - E NDORSEMENT  OF CERTIFICATES  AND LICENSES
(a) Any aircraft or part thereof with respect to which there
exists an international standard of airworthiness orperformance, and which failed in any respect to satisfy thatstandard at the time of its certification, shall have endorsedon or attached to its airworthiness certificate, a completeenumeration of the details in respect of which it so failed.
(b) Any person holding a license who does not satisfy in full
the conditions laid down in the international standardrelating to the class of license or certificate which he holds,shall have endorsed on or attached to his license a completeenumeration of the particulars in which he does not satisfysuch conditions.
A
RTICLE  40 - V ALIDITY OF ENDORSED CERTIFICATES  AND LICENSES
No aircraft or personnel having certificates or licenses so endorsed
shall participate in international navigation, except with the permission
96 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
of the State or States whose territory is entered. The registration or use
of any such aircraft, or of any certificated aircraft part, in any Stateother than that in which it was originally certificated, shall be at thediscretion of the State into which the aircraft or part is imported.
A
RTICLE  41 - R ECOGNITION  OF EXISTING STANDARDS  OF AIRWORTHINESS
The provisions of Articles 37, 38, 39 and 40 shall not apply to
aircraft and aircraft equipment of types of which the prototype issubmitted to the appropriate national authorities for certification,prior to a date three years after the date of adoption of an internationalstandard of airworthiness for such equipment.
A
RTICLE   42 - R ECOGNITION  OF EXISTING STANDARDS  OF COMPETENCY  OF
PERSONNEL
The provisions of Articles 37,38, 39 and 40 shall not apply to
personnel whose licenses are originally issued prior to a date one yearafter initial adoption of an international standard of qualification forsuch personnel; but they shall in any case apply to all personnelwhose licenses remain valid five years after the date of adoption ofsuch standard.
A
RTICLE  67 - F ILE REPORTS WITH COUNCIL
Each Contracting State undertakes that its international airlines
shall, in accordance with requirements laid down by the Council, filewith the Council traffic reports, cost statistics and financial statementsshowing among other things, all receipts and the sources thereof.
A
RTICLE  68 - D ESIGNATION  OF ROUTES AND AIRPORTS
Each Contracting State may, subject to the provisions of this
Convention, designate the route to be followed within its territory byany international air service and the airport, which any such servicemay use.
A
RTICLE  72 - A CQUISITION  OR USE OF LAND
Where land is needed for facilities financed in whole or in part by
the Council at the request of a Contracting State, that State shall eitherprovide the land itself, retaining title if it wishes, or facilitate the useof the land by the Council on just and reasonable terms and inaccordance with the laws of the State concerned.
A
RTICLE  81 - R EGISTRATION  OF EXISTING AGREEMENTS
All aeronautical agreements which are in existence on the coming
into force of this Convention, and which are between a ContractingState and any other State or between an airline of a Contracting Stateand any other State or the airline of any other State, shall be forthwithregistered with the Council.
97 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
ARTICLE  83 - R EGISTRATION  OF NEW ARRANGEMENTS
Subject to the provisions of the preceding Article, any Contracting
State may make arrangements not inconsistent with the provisions ofthis Convention. Any such arrangement shall be forthwith registeredwith the Council, which shall make it public as soon as possible.
A
RTICLE 83 bis
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 12, 30, 31 and
32(a), when an aircraft registered in a Contracting State is
operated pursuant to an agreement for the lease, charter orinterchange of the aircraft or any similar arrangement byan operator who has his principal place of business or, if hehas no such place of business, his permanent residence inanother Contracting State, the State of registry may, byagreement with such other State, transfer to it all or part ofits functions and duties as State of registry in respect of thataircraft under Articles 12, 30, 31 and 32( a).  The State of
registry shall be relieved of responsibility in respect of thefunctions and duties transferred;
(b) The transfer shall not have effect in respect of other
Contracting States, before either the agreement betweenStates in which it is embodied has been registered with theCouncil and made public pursuant to Article 83 or theexistence and scope of the agreement have been directlycommunicated to the authorities of the other ContractingState or States concerned, by a State party to the agreement.
A
RTICLE  89 - W AR AND EMERGENCY  CONDITIONS
In case of war, the provisions of this Convention shall not affect
the freedom of action of any of the Contracting States affected, whetheras belligerents or as neutrals. The same principle shall apply in thecase of any Contracting State, which declares a state of nationalemergency and notifies the fact to the Council.
98 Civil Aviation  Act, No. 14 of 2010
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO. 163, K IRULAPONA  MAWATHA, POLHENGODA , COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .